(He leads his flock upstairs -- to a theater like no other .)
(Ed Schmidt 's play , called `` The Last Supper , '' is a highly unorthodox bit of dinner theater -- presented in the actor-playwright 's own Brooklyn apartment .)
(This quiet neighborhood is about as far `` off Broadway '' as it gets .)
(On a weekend evening , Schmidt leads a group of strangers -- a biologist , a City Hall lawyer , an actress , a literary agent -- into his cramped kitchen-living room .)
(The visitors amble past a child 's red wagon and a coffee table adorned with a doll .)
(Call them props for the unscripted moments when his kids , 6-year -old Jack and 3-year -old Beatrice , will dart by during the monologue or call out , `` Daddy ! '')
(The visitors settle into their seats -- old church pews -- for the retelling of Jesus ' last meal , with Schmidt as Jesus and his spectators representing the disciples .)
(Schmidt calls it `` an evening of honest-to- God '' theater -- served up with a side of reality .)
(Schmidt 's wife , Mary Beth Kilkelly , a former actress who markets children 's books , helps with the cleaning and even handles calls for reservations .)
(`` It 's been terrific because the play is really great , '' says Kilkelly , who joins the spectators midway through dinner to chat .)
(`` It 's very enjoyable to talk to people and see what they think . '')
(Curiosity -seekers from around the United States , as well as Argentina , Israel , Germany and France have called for tickets to the performances that are sold out through March 1 .)
(One evening , an NBC `` Today '' show crew descended on the Schmidt home , crisscrossing the tiny kitchen with cables and cameras .)
(It 's show time .)
(`` Please rise and turn to Hymn 47 , '' instructs Schmidt , a 40-year -old native of Chapel Hill , North Carolina .)
(Before the visitors break bread on a plywood table , the Jesus character , in a gray T -shirt , delivers the Biblical story of multiplying bread and fish to feed the multitudes .)
(`` You either believe , or you do n't ,'' he intones in the drawl of a Southern preacher , thumping the Bible .)
(`` This book is filled with stories even more outlandish . '')
(In his own outlandish style -- but with what he considers due respect to his Catholic heritage -- Schmidt bounces existential curve balls around the apartment , where angst-ridden lives are questioned , mocked and rhapsodized .)
(He pokes the human psyche , digressing into everything from Greek tragedy to twists on Agatha Christie .)
(Somehow , four Biblical characters morph into a New York mobster named Judas , an older woman wearing a tattered hat , a middle-age homemaker and her pregnant teenage daughter .)
(And somehow , this take on the New Testament , set in the urban jungle , comes complete with a murder mystery .)
(`` It 's about what we believe , why we believe , how we believe , '' Schmidt says of his play .)
(He claims he 's an ordained minister , thanks to a $ 14 Internet license .)
(But he also keeps repeating that it 's all an act , that he 's `` just pretending . '')
(One element is very real -- the food : gourmet cheese appetizers , Belgian beer , home-cooked lamb stew , three bottles of Cotes du Rhone wine beneath a wrought-iron chandelier , alight with candles .)
(Each dish of homemade ice cream is topped with a dark chocolate cross .)
(Schmidt creates the crosses each week , pouring bittersweet Belgian chocolate into a mold with a baby spoon .)
(The `` suggested donation '' for this cross-pollination of `` Saturday Night Live '' and soul-wrenching religion is $ 25 to $ 40 per person , stuffed into an `` offering '' envelop inside one of the dozen hymnals at the pews .)
(This is Schmidt 's big break after years of `` temp '' jobs , with only a few small productions amid countless rejection letters -- duly quoted in the evening 's program .)
(`` I was very moved by the idea of a guy dedicating his life to working in his study , creating characters , '' said spectator Ethan McSweeny , a Brooklyn artist .)
(`` It 's an act of faith -- that you will one day affect somebody . '')
(The play 's run ends in March , after more than 10 months of theater in the home of a family that admittedly sometimes craves the return of `` normalcy . '')
(Concedes Schmidt : `` We do n't want pews in our kitchen forever . '')
(Waiting list reservations can be made by calling 718-499-7758 .)
(___ On the Net : `` The Last Supper '' : http : //www.nytheatre.com/nytheatre/lastsupp.htm)
(American troop reinforcements come to Kuwait daily in the biggest military buildup in the region since the Gulf War -- but it 's hard to tell .)
(After heavy media coverage of their departure from bases in the United States this week , the soldiers are landing in Kuwait in near secrecy .)
(The U.S. government is engaged in a juggling act -- advertising loudly to Saddam Hussein that he faces the threat of massive force if he fails to give up weapons of mass destruction , while trying to keep a low profile in the gulf region to ease local sensitivities .)
(The balance is highly visible -- or perhaps invisible -- in Kuwait , the largest forward staging area for a potential U.S. ground invasion of southern Iraq .)
(Troops from the Army 's 3rd Infantry Division , based at Fort Stewart , Georgia , this week have been arriving at a military base near Kuwait City 's international airport , part of a deployment that will ultimately bring the division 's entire 17,000 troops to the region .)
(Reporters have been forbidden from entering the Kuwaiti base to film or interview the arriving troops .)
(Convoys of buses guarded by machine gun-equipped Humvees and police cars shepherd the Americans to their camps , which are generally closed to the media .)
(U.S. military spokesmen have confirmed the arrivals are taking place , but will not discuss numbers or units .)
(`` We 're not discussing force flows , '' said Capt. David Connolly , an Army public affairs officer .)
(`` We 're telling people we 're redeploying forces around the world to support the war on terrorism , and that 's it . '')
(The military worries the deployment -- involving tens of thousands of American soldiers and U.S. marines , as well as U.S. Navy battle groups and U.S. Air Force units around the region -- might be seen as indicating an invasion is imminent .)
(That decision , officials stress , lies with U.S. President George W. Bush and the buildup is only to give him forces at his disposal if he judges military action must be used to rid Iraq of weapons of mass destruction .)
(Kuwait was uncomfortable when journalists covering the Army 's biggest live-fire exercise since the Gulf War reported comments and took pictures of troops stating their readiness for war -- such as a tank with a cannon painted with the words , `` All The Way to Baghdad . '')
(Since then , public affairs officers have asked reporters -- and told the soldiers -- to focus on the celebrations , not war speculation .)
(At the same time , in reaction to criticism over reporters ' lack of access to the 1991 Gulf War , the military is trying to allow more opportunities for coverage .)
(Kuwait owes its freedom from Iraqi occupation to the U.S. -led coalition that drove out Saddam 's military in 1991 .)
(Ayed al- Mannah , a Kuwaiti political analyst , said the American buildup does embarrass Kuwait , `` but the justification is clear : We have no other choice but to support the Americans .)
(Saddam did n't leave us any other choice . '')
(He noted that there is a U.S. military buildup in other countries , but believes the media are concentrating on Kuwait because it borders Iraq .)
(`` Some believe that Kuwait wants revenge , but this is not correct , '' al- Mannah said .)
(`` There is a sort of unjustified dense media coverage .)
(The war has n't even started . '')
(Around the region , U.S. military personnel try to keep a low profile to accommodate local sensitivities , and troops seldom wear uniforms off base .)
(The real-life love between Brittany Murphy and her `` Just Married '' co-star Ashton Kutcher began with a squabble .)
(The clash evolved into a crush between Murphy , who played Eminem 's girlfriend in `` 8 Mile , '' and Kutcher , best known as blockheaded Kelso on the Fox broadcasting network sitcom `` That ' 70s Show . '')
(`` We got into an argument during the first rehearsal and I 've never argued with anyone in rehearsal before in my whole life , '' Murphy gushed during an interview at NBC studios after an appearance on `` The Tonight Show . '')
(Wearing jeans , stiletto heels , and a black blazer over a white tank-top , Murphy laughs loud and easily , dismissing the long-ago disagreement as `` just a bicker .)
(I do n't even remember why , it was that silly . '')
(Kutcher , interviewed later , tells it like this : `` We had this big blowout fight .)
(She hated me .)
(I hated her .)
(It was a straight-up argument .)
(But we both apologized to each other later . '')
(Murphy said sharing most of the movie as a honeymooning couple who ca n't stop arguing helped them become `` buddies '' -- but nothing more , at first .)
(`` I had a broken heart when we first met and he was in a very serious relationship with a lovely young woman , but we just clicked and had a great time filming , '' the 25-year -old actress said .)
(`` Then I went away to do a film , he went away to do a film and it was about -LRB- two months ago -RRB- when we looked at each other and thought , ` OK , this is something ... ' '')
(Since then , the couple has appeared together in a tangolike dance sequence last month at the VH1 cable TV 's `` Big in 2002 Awards '' and recently co-hosted the MTV cable TV 's New Year 's Eve `` Pajama Party '' from Times Square .)
(Murphy said she is n't worried about the public attention affecting their romance .)
(`` Just because people are paying more attention , I do n't think you should change your behavior because that perhaps could put a larger strain on the relationship , '' she said .)
(The petite blond actress , known for her pouty lips , squeaky-scratchy voice and wide eyes sometimes ringed by dark circles , has seen her popularity soar since the blockbuster debut of `` 8 Mile . '')
(`` That changed a lot , '' she said .)
(`` That was the difference between people knowing my first and last name as opposed to not . '')
(Murphy has completed work on two other films , playing a drug-addicted stripper in `` Spun '' and a kindly nanny in `` Molly Gunn , '' and hopes her budding popularity will help jump-start a few personal projects , such as a Janis Joplin biopic she was hired to star in before the project fell apart over music rights .)
(Meanwhile , she plans to take time off from film work to develop a singing career -- although she wo n't say what kind of music .)
(`` It 'll be a surprise , '' she said .)
(Despite rumors she and Eminem dated while filming `` 8 Mile , '' she has described him as a close friend whose privacy she tries to respect .)
(`` During our first day of hair and makeup for a screen test in Detroit , there was a book about him on the counter and I opened it up and then closed it and decided not to read it , '' she said .)
(`` I realized , ` OK , if there is anything in his life he wants to tell me , he 'll tell me as I get to know him . ' '')
(`` Just Married '' gives Murphy a chance to play a lighter role , akin to her breakthrough performance as the makeover project in `` Clueless '' and her vocal work as quavery-voiced cousin Luanne Platter in the Fox cartoon sitcom `` King of the Hill . '')
(In recent years , she has co-starred as a suicidal woman obsessed with cooked chicken in `` Girl , Interrupted , '' and played a wannabe model eager to escape the streets of Detroit in `` 8 Mile , '' while the thriller `` Do n't Say a Word '' featured her as a secretive , near-catatonic abuse victim .)
(`` I was never trained in acting , never trained in singing , only dance , '' she said , adding that most of her performances are instinctive .)
(`` The characters basically take over me and use my emotions where they need to , if that makes any sense . '')
(Born in Atlanta , Murphy was raised there for two years by her single mother before they moved to Edison , New Jersey , to live closer to family .)
(Sharon Murphy worked as a saleswoman to support her daughter and encouraged her fascination with performing .)
(As a youngster , Murphy said she fantasized about making movies with her dolls or being a cast member on `` Saturday Night Live . '')
(After appearing in school and local theater productions , she began to audition for commercials .)
(Ads for candy , pizza restaurants and board games led her to move to Los Angeles , where she played small roles on short-lived sitcoms before her breakthrough in 1995 's `` Clueless . '')
(Murphy credits her mother 's support for her career success .)
(`` When I asked my mom to move to California , she sold everything and moved out here for me , '' Murphy said .)
(`` I was really grateful to have grown up in an environment that was conducive to creating and did n't stifle any of that .)
(She always believed in me . '')
(In a yurt on the South Fork of the American River in California 's Gold Country , Jack Bibbo huddled against the 28 F -LRB- 2 below zero C -RRB- weather .)
(This was a culmination of what had started out as a joke .)
(The only energy he had -- 345 watts in eight batteries -- came from the sun and was n't for luxuries like heat .)
(Bibbo needed all that power to edit about 50 hours of documentary film to under two hours .)
(Now the film , edited using only solar power , is finished , and the story of Eustace Conway , a man who left his North Carolina home at 17 to live in the woods and decided to stay , is ready to be shown .)
(It took Bibbo nine months to get `` Full Circle '' ready for the public .)
(`` I jokingly said , ` what if I were to edit this film with the use of solar power ? ')
(It was October of 2000 , and it was around the time when California was having the energy crisis , '' he said .)
(`` After I threw it out there , it grew legs of its own , '' he said , and what started as a joke became an earnest pursuit .)
(Bibbo , who had previously spent four years making snowboarding films , knew nothing about how to use solar power to edit his movie .)
(He started collecting information and took classes at the Solar Living Institute in Hopland , an organization that teaches people how to live in an environmentally sustainable way .)
(Then , when he thought he knew enough , Bibbo began work .)
(It was July 2001 .)
(He started in a two-room tent on a 16-acre -LRB- 6.4-hectare -RRB- parcel that a man let him use for free .)
(He had two solar panels and four batteries and an Apple G4 computer .)
(He told his landlord he 'd be there for two months .)
(Four months later , he still had no film cut .)
(But Bibbo kept plugging away .)
(He exchanged his two-room tent for a 14-by-14-foot -LRB- 4.3-by-4.3-meter -RRB- yurt -LRB- a portable canvas-walled home -RRB- , added two solar panels and four batteries , and switched to a laptop that used one-tenth of the energy that his G4 did .)
(Every four or five days , he would recharge his solar batteries and drive into town where he would get supplies , use library computers to e-mail people , and get cell-phone reception .)
(Temperatures in the yurt rose as high as 110 degrees in the summer and as low as 28 degrees in the winter .)
(Why go through all that just to edit a movie ?)
(`` I wanted to stay within the environmental message of the film , '' he said .)
(`` I 'm asking the people in the audience to question themselves , and I had to question myself as well . '')
(And Bibbo 's challenges lasted only nine months .)
(Conway , the subject of the movie , has been living out in the woods , bathing in icy rivers , trapping and growing his own food for 17 years .)
(He also runs a preserve where he teaches others about his way of life .)
(Conway also embarks on the occasional adventure , such as canoeing down the Mississippi River or riding a horse across the country .)
(Bibbo went with him on part of a 2,500-mile -LRB- 4,000-kilometer -RRB- circle around the Great Plains in a horse and buggy with his friends , and visited Conway at his North Carolina preserve three times to make his film .)
(`` It 's quite an honor that he 'd do the story and go about it in a solar-powered way , '' Conway said .)
(`` It represents a lot of what I 'm talking about and teaching ... he got that message . '')
(Bibbo is shopping the movie to film festivals and is planning a `` solar tour '' in the spring , to places , like a forest , where there 's no electricity .)
(He 'll project the movie using solar power .)
(`` I loved the solitude , '' he said of his editing experience .)
(`` I went through a lot of really good personal growth about being alone , challenging myself , overcoming the fear of not really knowing what you 're doing and then doing it .)
(I left the river really empowered . '')
(Norman Hollyn , who teaches editing at the University of Southern California 's School of Cinema - Television , said editing a film by solar power is a novel idea -- and not a bad one .)
(`` You develop such a close relationship to the material that you have to really like the people and the material you 're working with , '' he said .)
(`` You have to want to spend nine months working with them . '')
(___ On the Net : Solar Living Institute , http : //www.solarliving.org/ Conway 's preserve , http : //www.turtleislandpreserve.com/eustace.htm Bibbo 's site , http : //www.roomandboardfilms.com/pages/filmsite.html)
(A substance in the saliva of vampire bats could prove to be a potent new treatment for strokes , an Australian scientist says .)
(`` When the vampire bat bites its victim , it secretes this powerful clot-dissolving substance so that the victim 's blood will keep flowing , allowing the bat to feed , '' said Dr. Robert Medcalf of the Monash University Department of Medicine at Box Hill Hospital in Victoria , Australia .)
(That same substance -- Desmodus rotundus salivary plasminogen activator , or DSPA -- might someday be given to stroke victims to dissolve clots and thereby limit brain damage , he said .)
(The substance has yet to be tested for effectiveness and safety in humans , but it showed promise in preliminary experiments in mice .)
(The findings were reported in Thursday 's issue of the journal Stroke , published by the American Heart Association .)
(The research involves ischemic strokes , which are the most common kind of stroke and occur when a blood clot or narrowing of blood vessels prevents blood from getting to the brain .)
(The other type of stroke is a hemorrhagic stroke , which occurs when a blood vessel bursts and causes bleeding in the brain .)
(Some ischemic stroke victims are given a clot-busting substance called tissue plasminogen activator , or TPA .)
(But one major drawback of TPA is that it must be administered within three hours of the stroke 's onset , or else the drug itself can cause bleeding and brain damage .)
(Medcalf 's research team injected DSPA and TPA in mice and watched for brain damage .)
(Mice that got DSPA suffered less brain damage .)
(Medcalf said that DSPA is not only a more potent clot-buster but can also be safely administered up to nine hours after the stroke 's onset because it more precisely targets blood clots , which are held together by a string-like substance called fibrin .)
(`` DSPA is almost inactive in the absence of fibrin and therefore much more fibrin-specific than TPA , '' Medcalf said .)
(One expert warned that the research was limited to mice that had not suffered strokes .)
(`` This is several factors removed from a necessarily meaningful clinical effect , '' said Dr. Larry Goldstein , director of Duke University 's Center for Cerebrovascular Disease and chairman of the American Stroke Association Advisory Committee .)
(`` Does this have potential ?)
(Yes .)
(But whether it will prove to be safe or efficacious for humans with strokes , that 's a whole different story . '')
(And Dr. Keith A. Siller , an assistant professor of neurology at the NYU School of Medicine , said that the nine-hour window is not necessarily an advantage .)
(He said that any drug administered after three hours is essentially pointless because the damage to the brain has already been done .)
(Director Zhang Jiandong knew he was challenging Chinese sensibilities with a television series focusing on domestic violence .)
(What he did n't count on was it becoming a commercial -- and emotional -- triumph .)
(Viewers , including some victims of abuse , are praising the realism and gutsiness of `` Do n't Talk to Strangers , '' a 23-part series that ran on Chinese networks and is being marketed abroad .)
(Women 's groups have hailed it as an eye-opener for a society just coming to grips with spousal abuse .)
(`` This is really a sign of progress for Chinese society , '' Zhang says .)
(`` Do n't Talk to Strangers '' has been credited with bringing the uncomfortable subject into the open in an unprecedented way for China , where traditional culture teaches that family problems should stay within the family .)
(Zhang , who co-wrote the series , says he did n't expect the response the show got , though he acknowledges he wanted to shake up viewers .)
(That began with the backgrounds of the main characters .)
(Instead of an uneducated farmer or drunken factory worker -- the typical profiles of Chinese wife beaters -- Zhang made his villain a suave , respected doctor living an upper-middle-class lifestyle in the booming eastern port city of Xiamen .)
(The jarring effect is magnified by the scary realism of the beatings on the show , as Dr. An Jiahe -LRB- played by Feng Yuanzheng -RRB- leaves his frail schoolteacher wife bloody and bruised after repeatedly striking her in a jealous rage .)
(`` It 's sad , but a lot of families are like that , '' Zhang says .)
(`` You have to be realistic to make an impact . '')
(Though the production seems stilted , `` Do n't Talk to Strangers '' stands out amid Chinese television 's usual offerings of mawkish family drama and heroic portrayals of Communist Party officials , police and other social models .)
(To Zhang 's surprise , his show made it past Communist Party propaganda officials who generally frown on negative portrayals of Chinese society -- something the director attributes to a new willingness among leaders to confront social problems .)
(Officials have begun to address AIDS , drugs and suicide , all topics formerly hidden .)
(Not everyone was a fan , though .)
(Some viewers and officials found the show too violent , too gloomy , too hopeless .)
(`` There were a lot of people who said the topic was n't appropriate for television .)
(Some said it left them depressed for days , '' Zhang said .)
(But there were testimonials , too .)
(A meteorologist who had been beaten by her spouse identified with the show 's battered wife , Mei Xiaonan -LRB- played by Mei Ting -RRB- .)
(The show convinced her that leaving her husband was the right decision , the woman wrote to Zhang .)
(Activists say spousal abuse occurs in one in three Chinese families , slightly higher than the U.S. average of one in four .)
(In modern China , women suffer from low political representation and strict family planning policies that reinforce the traditional preference for boys .)
(When spousal abuse occurs , police often recommend only mediation .)
(That has started to change during the last three years , at least on paper .)
(The marriage law of 2001 gives victims the right to official protection and orders abusers punished .)
(In divorce cases , victims of abuse can also sue for damages .)
(Yet willingness to enforce the law varies widely across the country , and the resources to help abused women are scarce .)
(China 's first battered women 's shelters opened recently in Shanghai and Hubei province , but were forced to close because of lack of money or authorities ' unwillingness to offer protection .)
(`` It 's not across the country , but there is a trend in evidence of police and courts being more sensitive , '' says Chen Lanyan , an adviser for the U.N. Development Fund for Women in Beijing .)
(She warns , though , that without government backing , individual efforts by women to provide shelter and support will fail .)
(The government-affiliated All China Federation of Women is pushing for more specific legal definitions of abuse to help prosecutions .)
(But it 's also working to help women recognize that psychological abuse and casual slaps are unacceptable too , says Zhao Shuhua , director of the Beijing branch 's Women 's Rights and Interests Protection Division .)
(`` There 's a saying that it 's normal for couples to fight , '' Zhao says , `` and it 's hard to get people to see that as violence . '')
(A federal task force created after the 2001 terrorist attacks to track down and paralyze the finances of groups that bankroll terrorism will nearly double in size to stay on top of an ever-changing money trail .)
(Operation Green Quest , a multi-agency task force led by the U.S. Customs Service , will expand over the next couple months from about 240 agents and analysts to roughly 460 , Customs Commissioner Robert Bonner said in an interview Thursday with The Associated Press .)
(As terrorist financiers are forced out of the traditional banking system , they are turning to riskier ways to move money , including smuggling cash and cigarettes ; trafficking of diamonds , gold and drugs ; and siphoning money from charitable donations , law enforcement officials say .)
(`` The bottom line is to be even more effective in staunching the flow of funds to international terrorists organizations like the al- Qaida , depriving them of the financial wherewithal to mount and stage major terrorist attacks against the United States and the American people and frankly elsewhere in the world , '' Bonner said in the interview .)
(Operation Green Quest was set up Oct. 25 , 2001 following the terror attacks in New York and Washington .)
(The United States identified Osama bin Laden as the prime suspect and went about mobilizing resources to cut off bin Laden and his al- Qaida terror network from sources of financing .)
(That initial effort has substantially widened since then as the U.S. government has mounted an international campaign to shut down all terrorists financiers .)
(Roughly $ 124.5 million in financial assets belonging to terrorists groups , including al- Qaida , have been frozen worldwide since the attacks , according to the Treasury Department , which plays a lead role in the effort .)
(Bonner believes that most of the agents and analysts that would be added to Operation Green Quest would come from Customs by shifting some existing financial crimes and money-laundering experts to the task force .)
(The rest would probably come from other agencies involved in the task force , Bonner suggested .)
(He did not say what other agencies , if any , had committed to assign more people .)
(Given that Bonner largely envisions existing experts being shifted to the task force , costs for the expansion should be minimal , Customs officials said .)
(The task force operates out of Customs ' Washington headquarters .)
(The task force also includes agents and analysts from the Internal Revenue Service , the FBI , the Bureau of Alcohol , Tobacco and Firearms and the U.S. Postal Inspection Service .)
(Customs also plans to expand its overseas operations , Bonner said .)
(The service has about 30 overseas offices and plans to add three new locations .)
(Two would be in the United Arab Emirates -- Dubai and Abudhabi -- important money-exchange centers in the Middle East , Bonner said .)
(The third office would be set up in Bern , Switzerland , Bonner said .)
(Since its inception , the task force 's work has resulted in 79 arrests , 70 indictments and 600 open investigations , Bonner said .)
(In addition , Operation Green Quest has seized nearly $ 33 million -- of which $ 21 million constituted smuggled currency and monetary instruments seized at the nation 's border .)
(__ On the Net : Customs Service : http : //www.customs.gov)
(As a concert pianist , Barrett Wissman believes top musicians should be able to play the finest instruments .)
(As a financier and investor , he realizes they often ca n't afford those rare and expensive instruments themselves .)
(About six years ago , Wissman formed an organization that buys expensive classical instruments -- many created by master craftsmen hundreds of years ago -- for the sole purpose of loaning them to those who can play them to the fullest .)
(`` They 're at the top of their profession and they need an instrument that 's probably between $ 1 million and $ 4 million , '' said Wissman , 40 , who is married to cellist Nina Kotova .)
(Other wealthy benefactors have provided musicians with top instruments , but , Wissman said , `` some systematically , others on a case-by-case basis .)
(I decided to start something to systematically help people . '')
(Wissman has bought more than 10 instruments , mostly violins and cellos .)
(He would n't give specific prices but said they can range from $ 100,000 to several million .)
(Christopher Adkins , the principal cellist of the Dallas Symphony , played an instrument on loan from Wissman 's Cremona Society Limited for four years .)
(He said he could never have afforded the cello , made in Rome in 1714 by David Tecchler .)
(`` It 's just one of the really glorious instruments in the world , '' said Adkins .)
(Getting fine instruments into the hands of the best players results in great music and can boost a musician 's career , said Joseph Regh , vice president of The Violin Society and a New York violin and bow maker .)
(Arthur Toman , president of the American Federation of Violin and Bow Makers and a violin maker in Massachusetts , said handmade violins of good quality are in the $ 10,000 to $ 20,000 range , cellos from $ 20,000 to $ 40,000 .)
(But , Toman said , `` when you come to the old Cremonese Strads and Guarneris -- a million to the sky 's the limit . '')
(Antonio Stradivari and Joseph Guarnerius del Gesu worked in Cremona , Italy , the center of high-quality violin-making from the mid-17th century to the mid-18th century .)
(`` Because of the collectible value of these things -- and they cannot be recreated new -- they 've gone way up in value , '' Wissman said .)
(`` Where can you think of another object that has art value , that is also actively used , something that 's 300 years old that somebody uses as a day-to-day instrument in their profession ? '')
(There is a degree of risk in dealing with such expensive items , as Wissman found out when a Stradivarius turned up missing this year .)
(Cremona Society Limited sued Christophe Landon Rare Violins in New York , claiming the workshop was negligent in losing the 1714 Golden Period Stradivarius while acting as an agent for Cremona in the violin 's possible sale .)
(Cremona attorney Bill Brewer said the lawsuit asks for damages of up to $ 4 million , the instrument 's estimated value .)
(Insurance paid $ 1.9 million , he said .)
(Landon , who builds , restores and sells violins , cellos and violas , told police he left the violin with a client in a private room , then discovered it missing two days later .)
(The company that insured the violin pulled the insurance on other Cremona instruments , and Wissman now keeps the more expensive pieces , including the cello that Adkins had been playing , in safekeeping .)
(A 266-year -old instrument used by New York -based concert violinist Kurt Nikkanen for the last five years is in safekeeping , but he also has use through Cremona of a violin made by Pietro Grulli in 1890 instead .)
(It 's an excellent instrument , he said , but handles differently .)
(`` I have n't found one violin that compares to my Guarneri , '' said Nikkanen .)
(`` That sound that you hear under your ear , you ca n't imagine being without it . '')
(A teenager was charged with first-degree murder for allegedly killing a romantic rival by spiking his soda with cyanide .)
(Ryan Furlough , 18 , laced his friend 's drink with the poison as they played video games in Furlough 's basement in Ellicot City in suburban Baltimore , police said Thursday .)
(Benjamin Vassiliev , 17 , went into respiratory arrest last Friday after drinking the soda and died Wednesday .)
(Police found a letter in Vassiliev 's house indicating Furlough was in love with Vassiliev 's girlfriend , according to court documents .)
(Furlough told police he had been thinking about killing Vassiliev since October , the documents show .)
(Furlough also faces reckless endangerment and poisoning charges , said police spokeswoman Sherry Llewellyn .)
(Police said Furlough bought the cyanide with his mother 's credit card in November .)
(The Louisville , Kentucky -based chemical supplier that sold the poison , Antec Inc. , said Vassiliev inquired about the chemical over the Internet , but placed the order by phone .)
(He told the company he planned to use the substance to plate metal .)
(Furlough 's parents , Susan and Tom Furlough , apologized in a statement issued Wednesday by their son 's lawyer .)
(`` We are so sorry for the pain and suffering our son Ryan has caused Ben and his family , '' the statement reads .)
(`` Our hearts go out to all those individuals involved . '')
(___ On the Net : Antec Inc. : http : //www.kyantec.com)
(A former Roman Catholic priest pleaded guilty Thursday to sexually abusing a teenager more than 20 years ago , and agreed to cooperate in a probe of alleged misconduct and cover-ups within the diocese .)
(John Maurice Giandelone pleaded guilty to two felony counts of sexual conduct and a third count was dismissed .)
(He was ordered held without bond until sentencing Feb. 7 .)
(Giandelone served a six-month jail sentence for abusing another teen in 1984 .)
(As part of a plea agreement , Giandelone promised to cooperate with Maricopa County prosecutors investigating how much Bishop Thomas O'Brien knew about alleged abuses , and whether he advised families whose children said they were abused not to contact police .)
(O'Brien has acknowledged that about 50 priests , former priests and church employees have been accused of criminal sexual misconduct with minors in the diocese during the past three decades .)
(He has vowed to cooperate with authorities , but has declined to discuss the investigation publicly , citing grand jury secrecy laws .)
(Giandelone , 55 , was arrested Dec. 3 in Fort Myers , Fla. , and extradited to Arizona .)
(He was accused of molesting a 16-year -old boy while he was a priest at St. Joseph 's Catholic Church in Phoenix .)
(The victim , now 39 , told authorities about the molestation after other alleged priest abuse victims came forward in recent months .)
(Giandelone declined to speak to reporters Thursday as he was led back to his jail cell .)
(His attorney also declined comment .)
(At sentencing , Giandelone faces just under two years in prison , probation and a $ 150,000 fine .)
(Authorities said Giandelone was transferred to St. Mary 's church in Chandler in the 1980s and while there , he sexually abused another 15-year -old boy .)
(Court records show Giandelone spent six months in jail in that case , left the preisthood in 1992 and eventually moved to Florida , where he registered as a sexual offender in 2000 .)
(Meanwhile in Boston , the leader of a Catholic lay reform group said Thursday that Bishop Richard Lennon 's failure to meet with them after nearly a month in office raises concerns that Lennon is n't truly committed to openness and unity .)
(Voice of the Faithful President Jim Post said he requested a meeting in a letter sent Monday after Lennon did n't respond to informal requests .)
(Lennon was appointed Dec. 13 to replace Cardinal Bernard Law as head of the Boston Archdiocese .)
(Donna Morrissey , a spokeswoman for the archdiocese , said Lennon has been busy with new duties , meeting with personnel and fielding numerous requests for meetings .)
(`` Certainly , we want to respond to the community of the faithful , which includes members of Voice of the Faithful , '' she said .)
(`` We want to have an open dialogue with the community as a whole . '')
(___ On the Net : Catholic Diocese of Phoenix : http : //www.diocesephoenix.org Voice of the Faithful : http : //www.votf.org Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Boston : http : //www.rcab.org)
(Starting next month , sea carriers must provide details of the contents of sea containers destined for this country 24 hours before the cargo is loaded onto ships at foreign ports , the chief of the U.S. Customs Service said .)
(Customs Commissioner Robert Bonner put carriers and shippers on notice Thursday that the service will begin enforcing the rule on Feb. 2 as originally planned .)
(The rule was put in place Dec. 2 with a 60-day grace period , giving sea carriers time to come into compliance .)
(Although no formal requests were made to the agency to extend the grace period , Bonner said that informally there have been rumblings among some carriers hoping for more time .)
(`` We ca n't roll this back any further , '' he said .)
(The new rule is aimed at preventing terrorists from bringing nuclear and other deadly weapons into the United States .)
(Many U.S. and foreign sea carriers for years have been voluntarily giving Customs advance cargo information , but Customs may not get the information until a few days before a ship carrying the cargo reaches a U.S. port .)
(Years after his angry , politically pointed lyrics were tagged with helping bring on a coup in Ivory Coast , Africa 's leading reggae star is trying to inspire with a new message for his warring West African homeland : peace .)
(Chain -smoking in his hotel room on a West African tour , his voice thick with emotion , Alpha Blondy makes an impassioned appeal for cool tempers in Ivory Coast , where a rebellion that began Sept. 19 has torn apart the once stable nation .)
(`` If we do n't find a quick solution now , tomorrow will be too late , '' Blondy says .)
(`` We wo n't be talking about an uprising of a few rebels -- we 'll be talking about a war that will last maybe 20 years or more . '')
(Blondy , a 50-year -old native of Ivory Coast , made his name and his following bringing reggae from the Caribbean to Africa -- discovering reggae in a 1970s U.S. concert by Jamaican legends Burning Spear .)
(His latest reggae album , `` Merci , '' was nominated for a Grammy .)
(In the decades since -- most particularly the last -- he 's released numerous songs warning of the dangers of tribalism , racism , injustice and inequality .)
(All such evils , he says , have flourished in his home country , fostered by greedy politicians since the death of Ivory Coast 's first president , Felix Houphouet - Boigny .)
(Blondy 's works include a CD titled `` SOS Tribal War '' and a song called `` Civil War , '' whose warnings of an uprising against an entrenched president ring today as an uncannily accurate prediction of the crisis in Ivory Coast .)
(The world 's largest cocoa producer , Ivory Coast for long years after independence from France in 1960 had been considered a bulwark of political and economic stability on the continent .)
(Then in 1999 , soldiers overthrew Ivory Coast 's elected government , accusing it of corruption , ineffectiveness and discrimination against northerners .)
(Coup forces announced their takeover on a station that played the songs of Blondy and others beloved by the opposition .)
(Some called it Ivory Coast 's `` reggae revolution '' -- marked by junta soldiers cruising the streets in vehicles whose stereos blasted the words of Jah .)
(Rather than ending corrupt rule , however , the coup has ushered in chaos and ethnic , regional and political bloodletting .)
(Today , the rebellion that began with a new Sept. 19 coup attempt has divided the country , killed hundreds , caused thousands to flee their homes and threatened the country 's very survival .)
(Ivory Coast , Blondy fears , is teetering on the brink of genocide .)
(`` Machine guns sing louder than me .)
(My little voice cannot overcome the deadly music of machine guns and rockets , '' he says , while not hesitating to offer peace proposals from his platform as Ivory Coast 's most-famous artist .)
(Blondy says the only winners in Ivory Coast will be the world 's arms merchants , who are supplying both the government forces and the rebel groups with weapons .)
(`` Those who sell the weapons do n't give a damn about who is killing who , about who is genociding who .)
(They do n't know the faces , '' Blondy says .)
(Blondy says politicians have lost control of the crisis .)
(His role is to steer a middle course , he says , taking no side so that he can fight for peace .)
(Blondy calls for the abolition of the entrenched concept of `` Ivoirite , '' an emphasis on Ivory Coast as a nation for the native-born rather than for the millions of immigrants who have come here from other African countries .)
(He called it `` black Nazism . '')
(Blondy -- never hesitant to tackle policy in his songs and in his comments -- suggested that French , West African and U.N. forces deploy in Ivory Coast to keep the peace , staying until 2005 .)
(More than 2,000 French troops already are in the former French colony , and more than 1,000 West African regional peacekeepers are scheduled to arrive soon .)
(Other Ivory Coast reggae artists , equally outspoken , disagree sharply with their mentor -- including Tiken Jah Fakoly , who says the French presence will only spur massacres .)
(In the meantime , Blondy says , the United Nations should oversee elections in which all are allowed to compete .)
(His suggestion addresses a trigger point in Ivory Coast 's tensions -- barring of northern-backed opposition leader Alassane Ouattara from presidential elections .)
(For years , Ivory Coast 's southern -based government has insisted Ouattara 's parents are foreign-born -- making him a non-citizen , and shut out of the presidential race .)
(`` They say shut up you who came from far away ... this is not democracy , or multiparty politics , this is tribalism and it will bring all kinds of conflicts , '' Blondy sang in `` Multipartism '' in 1992 -- another song pinpointing with eerie reggae clairvoyance causes of troubles that were then still a decade away .)
(Blondy performed in Mali over New Year 's as part of an African tour to mark 20 years of his successful musical career .)
(His concert in Ouagadougou , capital of Burkina Faso , was abruptly canceled last month by the authorities , whom he has criticized in a song about the unsolved 1998 killing of journalist Norbert Zongo .)
(After Bamako , the Ivory Coast reggae singer was headed to Cameroon and Guinea , although , as he told The Associated Press , `` I do n't have the heart to sing now .)
(My heart is bleeding for my bleeding land . '')
(Tokyo stocks fell Friday morning as companies sold shares held in business partners and other companies .)
(The dollar was higher against the yen .)
(The benchmark 225-issue Nikkei Stock Average slid 39.47 points , or 0.46 percent , to 8,458.46 points at midday .)
(The Nikkei lost 19.87 points , or 0.23 percent , to close at 8,497.93 points Thursday .)
(The dollar bought 119.72 yen at 11 a.m. -LRB- 0200 GMT -RRB- Friday , up 0.88 yen from late Thursday in Tokyo and above its level of 119.40 yen late Thursday in New York .)
(Traders said the unwinding of cross-held shares by companies -- in which companies sell shares they held in clients and other companies bought to cement business ties -- sent benchmark averages lower .)
(Many Japanese companies have been gradually selling their holdings in other companies in recent years as the value of those shares has fallen and owning them has become less beneficial financially .)
(Dai Nippon Printing , Fujisawa Pharmaceuticals and Mitsubishi Materials were among the losing issues Thursday morning .)
(The Tokyo Stock Price Index of all issues on the first section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange fell 4.52 points , or 0.54 percent , to 834.81 points .)
(The TOPIX shed 0.22 points , or 0.03 percent , to finish at 839.33 points Thursday .)
(In New York Thursday , stocks bounced back after a drop in jobless claims raised hopes that the U.S. economy is recovering .)
(The Dow Jones industrial average surged 180.87 , or 2.1 percent , to close at 8,776.18 .)
(The broader U.S. market also finished sharply higher .)
(The Nasdaq composite index climbed 37.39 , or 2.7 percent , to 1,438.46 .)
(The Standard & Poor 's 500 index gained 17.64 , or 1.9 percent , to 927.57 .)
(Wall Street 's gains also lifted the dollar against the yen and the euro overnight as they reflected some optimism for U.S. assets .)
(The euro bought 125.44 yen at midday Friday , up from 125.21 yen late Thursday in Tokyo .)
(Against the dollar , the euro was at US$ 1.0484 , down from US$ 1.0537. The yield on the benchmark 10-year government bond was quoted at 0.8800 percent early Friday , up from 0.8500 percent late Thursday .)
(Its price fell 0.27 to 100.18 .)
(___ On the Net : Tokyo Stock Exchange : http : //www.tse.or.jp)
(Although the title of his 2000 album , `` G.O.A.T. , '' stands for `` greatest of all time , '' LL Cool J considers himself a humble man .)
(`` I do n't get cocky and start thinking I know everything about the music or like I know everything about what people want to hear , '' says the Grammy -winning rapper-actor , who was born James Todd Smith in Queens , New York .)
(He took the name LL Cool J -- `` Ladies Love Cool James '' -- when he was a teenager , dropping out of school to pursue music .)
(His 1990 album , `` Mama Said Knock You Out , '' established him as one of hip-hop 's superstars .)
(`` Every time I do a record , it 's from the heart . ...)
(It 's just a chance for me to express myself on a different level , '' said the 34-year -old , who sports a tattoo of a crowned microphone on his right arm .)
(`` Obviously everybody ca n't like every song , and I know that , but I try to make them all as good as I can . '')
(`` Luv U Better , '' from 2002 's `` 10 '' album , climbed into the top five on the Billboard music chart .)
(And although his 10-album deal with Def Jam expired with `` 10 , '' LL Cool J plans to continue recording .)
(`` I 'm an unsigned artist , '' he said .)
(The star of the ` 90s sitcom `` In the House '' has three upcoming films , the romantic comedy `` Deliver Us From Eva , '' which will be released in early February ; `` S.W.A.T. '' with Samuel L. Jackson and Colin Farrell ; and the thriller `` Mindhunters , '' also starring Val Kilmer and Christian Slater .)
(1 .)
(Do you ever listen to other artists to see what 's out before you go into the studio ?)
(LL Cool J : I listen to the radio , I buy records , and I listen as a fan .)
(I do n't critique other albums in order to see what I 'm up against because I 'm not up against anything .)
(So I just do my music .)
(No one is going to buy an LL Cool J record expecting to hear someone else .)
(2 .)
(What was the inspiration behind `` Luv U Better '' ?)
(LL Cool J : My personal relationships , the things I 've been through , the mistakes I 've made in my life .)
(-LRB- I 'm -RRB- just tapping into that sincerity .)
(3 .)
(In the video for `` Luv U Better , '' your body looks really toned .)
(How long did you work out for that ?)
(LL Cool J : I literally -LRB- worked out -RRB- for the last year and a half or so .)
(I had to gain weight for a couple of movies .)
(But once I was done with those roles , I said , ` OK , now I have an opportunity to get back in the gym and lose all that weight . ')
(4 .)
(What do you say when people comment on your looks ?)
(LL Cool J : I do n't even think about that .)
(I 'm not a dude that 's trying to be cute .)
(There are a lot of guys that are prettier than me so I do n't get caught up .)
(5 .)
(Would you encourage your four children to rap ?)
(LL Cool J : I would encourage them to pursue whatever dreams they have .)
(I would help them with anything .)
(I 'm going to always help my kids .)
(I have to do that .)
(And I want to .)
(___ On the Net : Official LL Cool J Web site : http : //www. LLCoolJ .com)
(Celebrity birthdays for the week of Jan. 12-18 : Jan. 12 : Actress Kirstie Alley is 52 .)
(Political commentator Rush Limbaugh is 52 .)
(Country singer Ricky Van Shelton is 51 .)
(Radio personality Howard Stern is 49 .)
(Actor Oliver Platt is 43 .)
(Singer Rob Zombie is 37 .)
(Model Vendela is 36 .)
(Singer Zack de la Rocha -LRB- formerly of Rage Against The Machine -RRB- is 33 .)
(Singer Melanie Chisholm -LRB- Sporty Spice -RRB- of the Spice Girls is 29 .)
(Jan. 13 : Actor Robert Stack -LRB- `` Unsolved Mysteries , '' `` The Untouchables '' -RRB- is 84 .)
(Actor Charles Nelson Reilly is 72 .)
(Comedian Rip Taylor is 69 .)
(Actress Julia Louis - Dreyfus -LRB- `` Seinfeld '' -RRB- is 42 .)
(Actress Penelope Ann Miller is 39 .)
(Actor Patrick Dempsey is 37 .)
(Actress Nicole Eggert -LRB- `` Baywatch , '' `` Charles in Charge '' -RRB- is 31 .)
(Actor Orlando Bloom -LRB- `` The Lord of the Rings '' -RRB- is 26 .)
(Jan. 14 : `` 60 Minutes '' commentator Andy Rooney is 84 .)
(Actress Faye Dunaway is 62 .)
(Actress Holland Taylor -LRB- `` The Practice '' -RRB- is 60 .)
(Singer -producer T - Bone Burnett is 55 .)
(Actor Carl Weathers is 55 .)
(Director Steven Soderbergh is 40 .)
(Rapper Slick Rick is 38 .)
(Actress Emily Watson -LRB- `` Breaking the Waves '' -RRB- is 36 .)
(Rapper LL Cool J is 35 .)
(Actor Jason Bateman is 34 .)
(Musician Dave Grohl of the Foo Fighters is 34 .)
(Jan. 15 : Actress Andrea Martin is 56 .)
(Singer Martha Davis of The Motels is 52 .)
(Actor -director Mario Van Peebles is 46 .)
(Actor Julian Sands is 45 .)
(Singer Lisa Lisa of Lisa Lisa and the Cult Jam is 36 .)
(Actor Chad Lowe is 35 .)
(Actress Regina King is 32 .)
(Jan. 16 : Country singer Ronnie Milsap is 60 .)
(Director John Carpenter is 55 .)
(Actress -dancer Debbie Allen is 53 .)
(Singer Sade is 44 .)
(Bassist Paul Webb of Talk Talk is 41 .)
(Singer Maxine Jones of En Vogue is 37 .)
(Actor David Chokachi -LRB- `` Baywatch '' -RRB- is 35 .)
(Supermodel Kate Moss is 29 .)
(Jan. 17 : Actress Betty White is 81 .)
(Actress -singer Eartha Kitt is 76 .)
(Actor James Earl Jones is 72 .)
(Talk show host Maury Povich is 64 .)
(Former Rolling Stones guitarist Mick Taylor is 55 .)
(Singer Steve Earle is 48 .)
(Singer Paul Young is 47 .)
(Actor -comedian Steve Harvey is 46 .)
(Singer Susanna Hoffs of The Bangles is 44 .)
(Actor Jim Carrey is 41 .)
(Musician Kid Rock is 32 .)
(Jan. 18 : Actor -director Kevin Costner is 48 .)
(Country singer Mark Collie is 47 .)
(Actress Jane Horrocks -LRB- `` Absolutely Fabulous '' -RRB- is 39 .)
(Actor Jesse L. Martin -LRB- `` Law and Order '' -RRB- is 34 .)
(Rapper DJ Quik is 33 .)
(Singer Jonathan Davis of Korn is 32 .)
(Singer Samantha Mumba is 20 .)
(Steve Young , national president of the Fraternal Order of Police , died Thursday of cancer .)
(He was 49 .)
(Young , a native of Upper Sandusky , Ohio , and a 26-year member of the FOP , was elected president in 2001 .)
(The FOP is the nation 's largest law enforcement labor organization , with more than 300,000 members .)
(`` Steve Young committed his life to protecting his community and to supporting law enforcement officers across our nation , '' Attorney General John Ashcroft said in a statement .)
(Young was also an active duty police officer , serving as a lieutenant in the Marion City Police Department in Ohio , until his death .)
(During his career , Young helped create the Ohio Labor Council , with more than 8,000 members .)
(The group aims to improve the effectiveness of management and labor negotiations within police forces .)
(Young is survived by his wife , Denise , two sons , three sisters and his mother .)
(Entertainment highlights during the week of Jan. 12-18 : In 1986 , former members of the Sex Pistols sued former manager Malcolm McLaren .)
(The lawsuit was settled out of court .)
(In 1990 , actors Tom Cruise and Mimi Rogers released a statement that said they were ending their three-year marriage .)
(In 1996 , Lisa Marie Presley filed for divorce from Michael Jackson .)
(In 1999 , actor Robert Guillaume suffered a mild stroke on the set of the TV show `` Sports Night . '')
(In 2001 , Metallica announced that bassist Jason Newsted had quit .)
(In 2002 , `` The Fantasticks '' closed in New York 's Greenwich Village .)
(It was the longest-running musical in the world .)
(It had begun production in 1960 and had been performed 17,162 times .)
(Airline executives told Congress that their companies still face major financial problems that probably will worsen if America goes to war with Iraq .)
(Air travel has yet to return to pre- Sept .)
(11 levels .)
(The number of people flying in November was down almost 18 percent from November 2000 , according to the Transportation Department .)
(Since the attacks , the major airlines have laid off more than 80,000 employees , cut wages for others and reduced the number of flights , but they still expect to lose $ 9 billion last year .)
(Two have filed for bankruptcy in the last six months -- United Air Lines and US Airways .)
(`` We 've got most of the airlines broke and the rest of them begging , '' South Carolina Senator Ernest Hollings said Thursday .)
(War in Iraq could make a bad situation even worse , American Airlines chief executive Don Carty told the committee .)
(Congress has twice helped the airlines since Sept. 11 .)
(In November 2001 , President George W. Bush signed into law a $ 15 billion aid package that included $ 5 billion in cash assistance and a $ 10 billion loan guarantee program .)
(Last year , Congress enacted a law to extend government-issued war-risk insurance and to limit liability against companies for the terrorist attacks , saving airlines an estimated $ 1 billion .)
(Carty said airlines need more , but he said they have yet to reach consensus on what Congress can do to help .)
(Northwest Airlines ' Chief Executive Richard Anderson also testified that the airlines need relief .)
(The committe pledge to look at these issues : _Are U.S. airports adequately protected from anti-aircraft missiles , such as the one fired at an Israeli jet in Kenya last year ?)
(_Should the limit on foreign investment in U.S. airlines be raised ?)
(And are foreign governments unfairly subsidizing Airbus Industries , the European manufacturer that is the chief rival to Boeing Co . ?)
(Lawmakers also raised concerns that airline agreements to book passengers on each other 's flights are anticompetitive .)
(The Transportation Department is considering a proposal for Continental , Northwest and Delta to enter into such an alliance .)
(___ On the Net : Air Transport Association : http : //www.air-transport.org)
(A moderate earthquake jolted much of central Mexico late Thursday , sending panicked residents spilling into the streets in downtown Mexico City but causing no reported injuries or damage .)
(The 5.3-magnitude quake struck shortly after 8 p.m .)
(-LRB- 0200 GMT -RRB- and was centered just off the coast of western Guerrero state , 30 miles -LRB- 50 kilometers -RRB- west of the resort city of Acapulco , the National Autonomous University of Mexico 's earthquake center reported .)
(In a telephone interview Sabas de la Rosa , head of Acapulco 's emergency response team , said the quake rattled high-rise hotels , homes and businesses for more than 20 seconds , but that authorities had n't received reports of injuries or damage .)
(De la Rosa said police were touring this city of close to 1 million to ensure the quake did not damage some of the area 's older homes or businesses .)
(In downtown Mexico City , more than 180 miles -LRB- 290 kilometers -RRB- to the west , police reported that dozens of people fled homes and businesses and spilled into the street as the floors beneath them trembled .)
(There were no reports of injuries or damage in the Mexican capital .)
(North Korea is pulling out of the global nuclear arms control treaty , North Korean news media said Friday .)
(North Korea 's Central Radio Station broadcast a government statement saying that the communist state was pulling out the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty .)
(The report was carried by South Korea 's cable news network YTN .)
(North Korea said its withdrawal from the treaty will free it from safeguard obligations with the U.N. International Atomic Energy Agency .)
(The announcement came as the United States was awaiting a reply from Pyongyang about its decision to open dialogue to seek a peaceful resolution of the country 's nuclear weapons development .)
(Two long-exiled rebel leaders who want a larger homeland for the Naga ethnic minority in northeast India met Thursday with the prime minister for talks aimed at ending one of Asia 's longest running separatist conflicts .)
(About 500 supporters in colorful shawls sang a Naga hymn when Isak Chishi Swu and Thuingaleng Muivah arrived in New Delhi from Amsterdam for their first visit to the Indian capital in 37 years .)
(Some men screamed war cries .)
(The two rebel leaders , with the National Socialist Council of Nagaland , met Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee , whom they also met last year in Osaka , Japan .)
(They were to meet Deputy Prime Minister and Home Minister Lal Krishna Advani on Friday .)
(The discussions will `` revolve around issues of devolution of power .)
(Special status is what they want , '' said K. Padmanabhaiah , the government 's chief negotiator , who greeted the rebel leaders at the airport .)
(The rebel leaders are based in Thailand and have not lived in India since their group was outlawed four decades ago , although they met with the late Indian Prime Minister Indira Gandhi in 1967 in Calcutta .)
(`` We are here in India because we hope to find a peaceful solution , '' Muivah said .)
(More than 15,000 people have been killed since Naga rebels began fighting for a separate nation just before India gained independence from Britain in 1947 .)
(The rebels want special status for Nagaland state , which borders Myanmar and where most of the 2 million Nagas live in predominantly Hindu India .)
(Most Nagas are Christians .)
(The latest talks cap a series of peace initiatives since the government and one rebel faction agreed to a cease-fire in 1997 .)
(Talks were held in the Netherlands in July and the government lifted a 12-year ban against the group on Nov. 26 .)
(Last month , the Nagaland state government withdrew arrest warrants and criminal cases against Muivah and Swu to facilitate their travel within India .)
(Among the contentious issues is the rebel demand that Naga -occupied areas in other northeastern states be unified with Nagaland .)
(They claim as many Nagas live in the neighboring states of Manipur , Assam and Arunachal Pradesh as live in Nagaland itself .)
(James Robert `` Radio '' Kennedy has been a local celebrity here for more than three decades .)
(His lumbering jog leads the T.L. Hanna High School football team onto the field for every game .)
(He greets fans entering the stadium with a handshake or a hug .)
(He barks instructions from the sidelines -- `` Get da quarterback ! '' -- and at halftime may serve hot dogs at the concession stand or go onto the field to play an imaginary game for fans .)
(Now Radio 's experiences at Hanna are the subject of a Columbia Pictures movie , `` Radio , '' starring Cuba Gooding Jr. and due out this fall .)
(Radio , 56 , is mentally disabled and cannot read or write .)
(He has been enrolled in the school 's special education program for decades , and has become a beloved figure in the community .)
(`` He 's going to help the kids bridge that gap of how to accept the mentally challenged , '' said Dave Koch , 44 , who has a daughter at Hanna and praises Radio 's infectious personality .)
(Radio also is black , and some say his close connection with the largely white school since before integration has helped promote racial understanding .)
(`` To a great extent , this one mentally challenged man really transformed this community and the way they look at the world , '' said Mike Tollin , director of the upcoming movie .)
(The film focuses on Radio 's relationship with the school 's football coach , Harold Jones , now 68 and retired -LRB- played in the movie by Ed Harris -RRB- .)
(Jones and other members of the athletic department befriended Radio when he started hanging around practices , mimicking the players .)
(Radio took on more and more responsibilities with the team , including honorary titles as manager and assistant coach .)
(`` He was really just like a fixture , '' Jones said .)
(`` It was n't no big deal , you know what I mean .)
(He was there , and he kind of just grew on us , and we grew on him as time went on . '')
(Jones ' stories about his buddy include one in which Radio ate all of the track team 's sandwiches in one sitting .)
(`` That was n't funny at the time , '' he said with a laugh .)
(Radio also is known for his annual talent-show performance of James Brown 's `` I Got You -LRB- I Feel Good -RRB- . '')
(`` That innocence is what 's so wonderful about Radio because he 's just who he is , '' said Tollin , whose projects have included `` Hard Ball , '' `` Summer Catch '' and the documentary `` Chasing the Dream '' about Hank Aaron .)
(`` You get him -- unfettered , unedited , uncensored -- and after awhile I think what happened is people are drawn to that energy .)
(It 's so refreshing . '')
(Anderson County is about 80 percent white , according to the 2000 Census , and senior cheerleader Meredith Howard said people look at Hanna as a `` rich , white school . '')
(`` Radio is not a color .)
(He is a person , '' said Howard , 17 .)
(`` He pretty much is Hanna . '')
(`` You ca n't look at Radio and not smile , '' she said after the two danced on the sidelines during a break in the cheers .)
(Radio lives with his older brother and sister-in-law .)
(He catches the schoolbus to the high school .)
(School officials say he has the mental capacity of a young child .)
(`` I going to see Cuba , '' Radio said recently before going to visit a production crew filming his story in nearby Walterboro .)
(He got his nickname 30 years ago riding around town on a grocery cart with a transistor radio , and the name still fits .)
(At a recent Friday night football game , he pulled a radio from his pocket and pressed it to his ear , listening intently to the broadcast of the game happening in front of him .)
(Jones said he does n't know how Radio 's story got so popular .)
(In addition to the movie , which co-stars Debra Winger as Jones ' wife , Linda , it has been featured by `` Good Morning America , '' Sports Illustrated and NFL Films .)
(`` Sometimes you can understand him and sometimes on new stuff it 's hard to understand him , '' Jones said .)
(`` Then I have to ask him two or three times before I can understand it .)
(My wife says he talks too fast . '')
(Miragene Lever , 32 , Radio 's special needs teacher , said he used to frustrate educators and be the target of bullies .)
(His outgoing personality , however , and his growing acceptance by the community helped him and inspired others , she said , including her other disabled students .)
(`` He knows how to touch everyone 's heart , '' she said .)
(Boomers , here 's another sign you 're not 25 anymore .)
(Patty Duke -- Helen Keller in `` The Miracle Worker , '' 1960s TV icon and pill-popping heroine of `` Valley of the Dolls '' -- has joined the cast of the Broadway revival of `` Oklahoma ! '')
(No , not as winsome , love-struck Laurey , but as Aunt Eller , the flinty matriarch whose maternal presence hovers over the classic Rodgers and Hammerstein musical .)
(Duke 's show-biz career has spanned more than four decades , but it 's those three roles that are etched in the memories of fans of a certain age .)
(After all , they grew up inspired by the stage and movie versions of `` The Miracle Worker . '')
(The film won Duke an Academy Award for her portrayal of the blind , deaf and wild little girl tamed by the tenacious Annie Sullivan .)
(And they were regular viewers of `` The Patty Duke Show , '' the TV series about identical cousins -LRB- both played by Duke -RRB- -- `` one pair of matching bookends , different as night and day , '' according to the show 's insistent theme song .)
(Later , they giggled their way through `` Valley of Dolls , '' a Hollywood trashfest of the highest order that these days , some 35 years after its initial release , has achieved bona fide cult status .)
(Today , the object of all this adoration sits in a publicist 's office directly across the street from the anonymous high-rise that houses the theater where `` Oklahoma ! '' is playing .)
(At 56 , Duke is , well , not 25 anymore , but a stylish matron , smartly done up in a maroon suit , a multicolored scarf draped around her neck , and wearing patent-leather pumps .)
(Look closely though and the disarming smile is still the same as when she played Patty and Cathy Lane on that ABC sitcom from 1963 to 1966 .)
(Duke is eager to embrace `` Oklahoma ! '' -- her first Broadway appearance since 1962 when she played a young girl with an incurable heart ailment in a short-lived flop called `` Isle of Children . '')
(`` I figure at my age , how many more chances was I going to get , '' Duke says .)
(`` So I decided that if I 'm going to put my money where my mouth is , then I have to take this risk .)
(Plus , there is some magical , mystical thing about the word ` Oklahoma . ')
(How do you say ` no ' to a show like ` Oklahoma ! ' '')
(For the last 12 years , Duke has lived in Idaho with her fourth husband , Michael Pearce , and her youngest son , Kevin .)
(Seven of those years have been down a dirt road on a ranch with assorted horses , goats , donkeys , dogs and even a llama or two .)
(`` What I find there has to do with the earth and the animals , '' she says .)
(`` Every time those llamas walk across a pasture , I think I 'm in a Christmas pageant .)
(I find a kind of centerness that is very comfortable . '')
(Not bad preparation for playing someone imstilled with a pioneer spirit .)
(`` What I feel that I have in common with Aunt Eller is my need and my sense of community , '' Duke explains .)
(`` And my other need is for everybody to make nice .)
(Do n't fight .)
(We 'll get through this .)
(`` This is a woman who has had strife in life , made her peace with some of it and has come to the point of acceptance .)
(Not giving up . '')
(A mirror of her own life , perhaps ?)
(`` Yes , '' she replies simply .)
(That life , its volatile ups and downs , has been well documented not only in several books , including her autobiography , `` Call Me Anna , '' but in a television movie as well .)
(Her marriages .)
(Her battles with mental illness .)
(Her turbulent relationships with her older children .)
(Idaho is a refuge , she says , from the clutter , noise and anger of big cities but not from herself .)
(`` I do n't spend a lot of time analyzing myself anymore , '' Duke says .)
(`` But I have found in the last couple of years , that I do n't think that I would have been able to be as settled a 56-year -old person if I had stayed in the city . '')
(What lures her back to show business is an occasional television movie , and something special , such as `` Oklahoma ! '')
(Despite her long career , the current Broadway revival is only Duke 's second musical after a concert version of `` Follies '' she did last year in California .)
(Yet she jumped right in .)
(`` I was n't surprised by her musical ability or her ability to be in a musical , '' says Mitchell Lemsky , production supervisor for `` Oklahoma ! '')
(It was Lemsky who rehearsed the actress for nearly four weeks before she went into the show in mid- December , replacing Andrea Martin .)
(`` When I was a kid , I thought I could sing -- then I thought I should never try that again , '' Duke says with a laugh .)
(`` But in recent years , I 've been singing more around home and the horses do n't care and the llamas do n't care . '')
(So she started singing lessons with a voice teacher in Spokane and then dancing lessons .)
(`` I do think of myself now as an actor who can sing and who can dance -- given the proper support and instruction , '' Duke says .)
(`` And I 'm certainly getting that here .)
(Everyone has been so kind .)
(I find that if I dance with the love that I feel for the audience , I really can do it . '')
(`` I was surprised by how accessible and open she is , '' Lemsky says .)
(`` She lets herself be known thoroughly , and her generosity in that way was overwhelming .)
(It 's genuine , and she brings that quality to her playing of the part .)
(She just does n't hold back . '')
(Hold back ?)
(Not on your life .)
(To this day , Duke finds it astonishing that total strangers come up to her in airports and sing the theme song to `` The Patty Duke Show . '')
(And she welcomes them .)
(`` We grew up together .)
(There were n't many other teenagers until Sally Field did ` The Flying Nun . ')
(We had a commonality , '' she says .)
(`` On a personal level , I love it .)
(When you are going through life trying to figure out why you were born ... and then ... people , total strangers , say , ` I love you ' -- I do n't know if it gives me the full answer but it carries me on the quest .)
(`` I think I was given a certain set of values by my parents that have stuck with me , '' she says , `` and from ` The Miracle Worker ' -- listening almost every night for almost two years to Annie Bancroft playing Annie Sullivan and saying , ` Giving up ?)
(Why in my opinion , that 's the original sin . ' '')
(A pickup truck that Border Patrol agents believed was carrying illegal immigrants flipped over during a high-speed chase , killing two people and injuring 13 , authorities said .)
(The truck overturned shortly in southeastern San Diego County , about 20 miles north of the U.S. - Mexican border , said Larry Landeros , a California Highway Patrol spokesman .)
(Seven people were hospitalized in critical condition and one was listed as serious , according to a Heartland Fire Authority dispatcher .)
(The others suffered minor injuries .)
(An 18-month -old baby was among those hospitalized but the toddler 's condition was not immediately known , Landeros said .)
(The chase was begun by Border Patrol officers who suspected a pickup truck covered by a tarp was carrying undocumented immigrants , Landeros said .)
(The truck struck a guard rail and hit other vehicles , but it was not known whether passengers in those vehicles were injured , Landeros said .)
(Border Patrol spokeswoman Gloria Chavez in San Diego said she was waiting for more information from agents at the scene .)
(The remote areas of eastern San Diego County are commonly used by smugglers driving vehicles crammed with illegal immigrants across the border .)
(Selected audio release : `` Lucie de Lammermoor , '' opera in three acts by Gaetano Donizetti -LRB- Virgin Classics , two CDs , $ 32.98 -RRB- No , `` Lucie '' is n't a typo .)
(`` Lucie de Lammermoor '' is the French language version that the composer introduced to Paris in 1839 , four years after `` Lucia '' premiered in Naples .)
(It was widely performed for decades and in fact was the first version of the Romantic masterwork -- based on Sir Walter Scott 's novel `` The Bride of Lammermoor '' -- to reach the United States , in New Orleans in 1841 .)
(Now , an impressive recording , starring soprano Natalie Dessay and tenor Roberto Alagna , bids to put the French `` Lucie '' back on the map .)
(They and the rest of the cast are recreating a highly successful production at the Opera de Lyon in early 2002 .)
(In preparing the work for Paris , Donizetti did far more than merely translate the text from Italian to French .)
(Though the famous `` Mad Scene '' with its fearsome coloratura is relatively unchanged , elsewhere there are vast differences structurally and musically .)
(Gone altogether is Lucia 's confidante , Alisa ; her tutor , Raimondo , has a much reduced role ; the shadowy retainer Normanno is replaced by the far more sinister Gilbert ; and Arturo , Lucia 's hapless bridegroom , has a much bigger presence .)
(Lucie 's first aria now is not the haunting `` Regnavo nel silenzio '' with its morbid vision of doom , but a more generic prayer for happiness lifted from an earlier opera .)
(Dessay , so spectacular in comic roles such as Olympia in Offenbach 's `` The Tales of Hoffmann '' and Zerbinetta in Strauss ' `` Ariadne auf Naxos , '' makes a most affecting tragic heroine , the purity of her sound adding to the pathos of the character .)
(Alagna seems always most at home in French repertoire , where his command of the language and style lends authority to his ardent singing .)
(As Lucie 's conniving brother , Henri , baritone Ludovic Tezier makes a strong contribution .)
(The orchestra and chorus of the Opera de Lyon are conducted with vigor and assurance by Evelino Pido .)
(-- Mike Silverman , AP Writer)
(You do n't need to go to a theater to see `` Just Married , '' because you 've already seen it .)
(If you own a television , and if you 've turned it on within the past month , you could n't have avoided commercials for the movie , starring Ashton Kutcher and Brittany Murphy as socio-economically mismatched newlyweds who bicker incessantly on their honeymoon .)
(-LRB- The real-life off-screen couple has been everywhere lately , hosting the VH1 cable television network 's `` Big in 2002 Awards '' and the MTV cable Television network 's `` New Year 's Eve Pajama Party '' and appearing on every talk show in between . -RRB-)
(So you 've had ample opportunity to see the movie 's big jokes , all of which are of the slapstick or gross-out variety : -- Blue -collar , wannabe sportscaster Tom Leezak -LRB- Kutcher -RRB- meets cute , wealthy Wellesley art history major Sarah McNerney -LRB- Murphy -RRB- when he tags her in the head with a football on the beach .)
(-- On their wedding night , Tom bangs Sarah 's head against the threshold while carrying her into the honeymoon suite .)
(-- Flying to Europe for their honeymoon , they get stuck in the bathroom while trying to join the mile-high club .)
(-- At an historic French hotel , Tom tries to plug in an appliance -- let 's just say it 's of the adult variety -- and short-circuits the wiring .)
(Later , at a run-down Italian hotel , he and Sarah crash through a wall and onto the bed next door , where another couple is having sex .)
(Sarah 's ex-boyfriend , a generically wealthy pretty boy named Peter -LRB- Christian Kane -RRB- , just happens to be in Europe at the same time , and wants to win her back .)
(This sets up more obvious misunderstandings and fights , which involve 10-pound ashtrays and fireplace pokers .)
(By the end , they 're so frustrated , they 're purposely pummeling each other .)
(But it 's hard to believe that their characters would ever get together in the first place , much less get back together -- and it 's even harder to care .)
(That 's a problem , because that 's the whole point of Sam Harper 's script , which he based on his own horrific honeymoon .)
(It does n't help that Shawn Levy directs with the same overbearing tone he used in last year 's `` Big Fat Liar , '' a movie remarkable only for rendering the adorable Frankie Muniz absolutely obnoxious .)
(Harper tries to infuse the movie with a kind of `` Barefoot in the Park '' sexual tension , but with none of the witty banter .)
(While Murphy and Kutcher are n't exactly Jane Fonda and Robert Redford , they 're likable enough -- at least they are individually .)
(Together , they 're shrill and annoying .)
(Ripping more than a few pages from the `` National Lampoon 's European Vacation '' script , Tom is always the ugly American , and the locals are depicted as singularly snooty and insulting .)
(Still , Murphy brings a natural charm to everything she does , from her voiceover work on the animated `` King of the Hill '' to her co-starring role as Eminem 's girlfriend last year in `` 8 Mile . '')
(And when she 's ranting in Italian , she bears a brief but striking resemblance to Federico Fellini 's muse , Giulietta Masina , with her bleach-blond hair , tiny frame and enormous brown eyes .)
(Similarly , Kutcher has a comfortable goofiness that makes him easy to watch on the sitcom `` That ' 70s Show . '')
(And I 'll admit it , I even liked him in `` Dude , Where 's My Car ? '')
(There 's even a moment in `` Just Married '' that has the manic energy of `` Dude , Where 's My Car ? '' when Tom tries to ram the front gates of Sarah 's family 's mansion in his beat-up Dodge with his idiot best friend , Kyle -LRB- David Moscow -RRB- , in the passenger seat .)
(It 's enough to make you long for that movie -- that 's when you know the honeymoon is really over .)
(`` Just Married , '' a 20th Century Fox release , runs 95 minutes .)
(One and a half stars out of four .)
(World No. 4 Juan Carlos Ferrero overcame Rainer Schuettler 3-6 , 6-3 , 6-2 Friday to advance to the final at the Sydney International .)
(Ferrero , seeded second , rallied from a set and break down in the second to win in 1 hour , 40 minutes .)
(Runner -up at the Tennis Masters Cup in Shanghai last November , Ferrero is hot favorite in Saturday 's championship match against the winner of the against the winner of the other semifinal between Lee Hyung -taik of South Korea and South Africa 's Wayne Ferreira .)
(In women 's semifinals , second-seeded Kim Clijsters was against third-seeded Justine Henin in an all- Belgian encounter and Lindsay Davenport was against Tatiana Panova of Russia .)
(President Bush has no timetable for determining whether to forcibly disarm Iraq , the White House said Thursday after hinting for weeks that a decision would quickly follow a U.N. report at the end of the month .)
(A report from the U.N. weapons inspectors , now two months into their search for nuclear , chemical and biological weapons in Iraq , is due Jan. 27 .)
(U.S. officials had indicated Bush would decide shortly thereafter whether a military confrontation was necessary to rid Saddam Hussein of the weapons of mass destruction the United States believes he has .)
(On Thursday , Bush spokesman Ari Fleischer termed the deadline merely `` an important reporting date . '')
(Fleischer also suggested that the United States ' military buildup could be useful as a tactic to prod the Iraqi leader to comply with U.N. requirements .)
(`` The military has effective influence on diplomacy and making sure that Saddam Hussein understands that he needs to comply , '' Fleischer said .)
(`` Because if he does n't , the United States has the means and the ability to make him comply . '')
(Underscoring war preparations , the Marine Corps said it had taken the unusual step of stopping all Marines , active-duty as well as reserve , from leaving the service for the coming 12 months .)
(The last time the Marines took this action , known as `` stop-loss , '' was during the buildup to the 1991 Gulf War , said Capt. Gabrielle Chapin , a spokeswoman at the Combat Development Command at Quantico , Va .)
(At the White House , the administration cast the inspectors ' assessment Thursday of Iraq 's 12,000-page weapons declaration as supporting the U.S. position that Iraq has so far failed to prove it does not possess banned weapons .)
(Chief weapons inspector Hans Blix , who delivered the assessment to the U.N. Security Council , said that no `` smoking guns '' had been found .)
(Blix , however , also said Iraq 's claim it has no weapons of mass destruction in violation of a U.N. resolution is impossible to verify because its declaration left out so much information .)
(Fleischer cited portions of the inspectors ' briefing that chided Iraq for merely maintaining it does not have weapons of mass destruction , instead of presenting credible evidence to prove it , and for failing to resolve questions about missile engine imports , the chemical agent VX and the full list of scientists who worked on weapons of mass destruction programs .)
(`` The problem with guns that are hidden is you ca n't see their smoke , '' Fleischer said .)
(`` We know for a fact that there are weapons there . '')
(Blix and International Atomic Energy Agency head Mohamed ElBaradei said the inspections process needs more time .)
(`` We are in the middle of a process , '' British Prime Minister Tony Blair said in London .)
(He has been a key ally of Bush in rallying world opinion to confront Saddam .)
(Meanwhile , thousands of American forces are streaming into areas south of Iraq such as Kuwait and Qatar .)
(However , a deal remains elusive for the U.S. military to examine which Turkish bases , considered key staging grounds along Iraq 's northern border , could be used , U.S. officials said .)
(The United States has offered incentives , but Turkish leaders hesitant to defy popular opinion in their Muslim country have been reluctant .)
(On one specific weapons matter , ElBaradei said aluminum tubes obtained by Iraq were not suitable for enriching uranium for use in a nuclear weapon .)
(But Fleischer said the acquisitions , banned under U.N. resolution regardless of their purpose , remain a cause for concern .)
(`` They are pursuing acquisition of elements that are banned to them that have purposes , that still can be used for military purposes , '' he said .)
(`` We do have concerns about their potential of developing nuclear programs . '')
(Commissioner Bud Selig will probably brief owners next week on his plan to have the league that wins the All - Star game gain home-field advantage in the World Series .)
(Selig had said at the November owners ' meeting that he intends to reinvigorate the All - Star game , which last summer ended in a much mocked , 7-7 tie after 11 innings in Milwaukee .)
(Both the American League and National League ran out of pitchers , with managers Joe Torre and Bob Brenly using players for short stretches to get everybody in .)
(Home -field advantage in the best-of-seven World Series has rotated each year .)
(Bob DuPuy , baseball 's chief operating officer , said this week that Selig 's plan to have the team from the All - Star -winning league host Games 1 , 2 , 6 and 7 does n't require a vote by owners .)
(Baseball and Fox also are considering whether to have the start of the World Series pushed back from a Saturday to a Tuesday , perhaps as soon as this year .)
(Games 1 and 6 , played on Saturdays , have been plagued by record-low ratings .)
(In addition , Fox is considering whether to drop two Saturday broadcasts in September , where they currently go up against college football , and using those slots earlier in the season .)
(An abandoned farm in rural Hong Kong was converted into a brothel run by local Chinese triad gangsters , police said Friday after rounding up 119 people in vice raids .)
(Prostitution is rampant in parts of Hong Kong and police crackdowns are frequent but authorities were quoted as saying the brothel in the old farm , made up of tin huts surrounded by a metal fence , was a surprise .)
(`` It is the first time in my knowledge that we have discovered a brothel operating in a setting like this , '' Organized Crime and Triad Bureau Superintendent Chiu Ming -wah was quoted as telling the South China Morning Post .)
(Authorities busted the establishment as they carried out raids on 32 locations on Wednesday , arresting 29 men and 90 women .)
(Local newspaper reports said the brothel in the poultry and pig farm employed sex workers from mainland China and operated 24-hour -a-day .)
(North Korea said Friday that it has withdrawn from the global nuclear arms control treaty and denounced what it called U.S. aggression , but said it had no plans to develop nuclear weapons .)
(`` We can no longer remain bound to the -LRB- Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty -RRB- , allowing the country 's security and the dignity of our nation to be infringed upon , '' the North Korean government said in a statement carried on KCNA , its official news agency .)
(In 1993 , North Korea also announced that it was withdrawing from the treaty , but later suspended the decision and entered talks with the United States .)
(`` Though we pull out of the NPT we have no intention to produce nuclear weapons and our nuclear activities at this stage will be confined only to peaceful purposes such as the production of electricity , '' KCNA said .)
(However , the North Korean action was likely to heighten tension over North Korea 's nuclear development as the United States and its allies seek a diplomatic solution to the problem .)
(The announcement came as New Mexico Gov. Bill Richardson , a former U.N. ambassador , acted as a surprise intermediary between the United States and North Korea .)
(He met Thursday night in his state with two envoys from the communist country in what observers hoped could augur an easing of tension .)
(The withdrawal from the NPT could signal that North Korea plans to push ahead with its nuclear weapons programs , or that it is trying to pressure the United States into concessions with a tactic known as brinkmanship .)
(`` The withdrawal from the NPT is a legitimate self-defensive measure taken against the U.S. moves to stifle the DPRK , '' the North 's news agency said .)
(North Korea has repeatedly accused the United States of plotting to invade it , and has said it has the right to develop weapons for its self-defense .)
(However , it has never publicly said that it has a nuclear weapons program .)
(North Korea joined the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty in 1985 .)
(It suspended its 1993 decision to withdraw from the treaty amid tension over its suspected nuclear weapons program .)
(The crisis was defused a year later when North Korea agreed to freeze its facilities at Yongbyon under an energy deal with the United States .)
(Those facilities are the focus on the new crisis .)
(The 1968 treaty is considered a cornerstone in the effort to stop the spread of nuclear weapons .)
(Only four other countries -- Cuba , India , Israel and Pakistan -- are not signatories , though Cuba is a member of a treaty establishing a nuclear-free zone in Latin America .)
(Roman Cechmanek made 24 saves for his first shutout of the season Thursday , and Eric Desjardins had a goal and assist in the Philadelphia Flyers ' 4-0 victory over the New York Islanders .)
(The Flyers have won five straight games and they snapped New York 's seven-game streak of earning at least one point -LRB- 6-0-0-1 -RRB- .)
(Pavel Brendl , Jeremy Roenick and Marty Murray also scored for the Flyers , who won both visits to Long Island this season by a combined score of 10-2 .)
(It was Cechmanek 's 15th career shutout .)
(Garth Snow gave regular Islanders goalie Chris Osgood the night off and stopped 16 shots .)
(Snow 's last start was Dec. 14 , a 4-3 loss at Tampa Bay .)
(Thrashers 3 , Lightning 2 , OT In Tampa Florida , Ilya Kovalchuk scored his second goal of the game with 15.2 seconds remaining in overtime as Atlanta beat Southeast Division -leading Tampa Bay .)
(Kovalchuk scored from the right circle soon after Atlanta goalie Byron Dafoe stopped Vincent Lecavalier on a breakaway .)
(Lecavalier and Dave Andreychuk scored power-play goals in the third period as the Lightning rallied to a 2-2 tie .)
(Tony Hrkac also scored for Atlanta , which has the NHL 's second-worst record -LRB- 11-24-2-4 -RRB- .)
(Canadiens 3 , Rangers 2 In Montreal , Marcel Hossa scored his second goal in as many games since being recalled from the minor leagues to lift Montreal over the New York Rangers .)
(Hossa scored with 13 : 37 remaining in the third period as Montreal ended a season-high seven-game winless streak .)
(The teams were tied 2-2 in the first period .)
(Defensemen Karl Dykhuis and Andrei Markov also scored for the Canadiens , who had n't played at home since a 6-2 win over Buffalo on Dec. 21 .)
(Matthew Barnaby and Jamie Lundmark scored for New York , 4-10-2-1 in its last 17 games .)
(Maple Leafs 4 , Penguins 2 In Pittsburgh , Toronto allowed Pittsburgh 's league-leading power play to convert only 1-of-9 chances without the injured Mario Lemieux , and Nik Antropov scored the decisive goal in Toronto 's victory .)
(Travis Green scored short-handed and also helped set up Jyrki Lumme 's goal with 2 1/2 minutes gone as the Maple Leafs went 3-1 in the season series , winning twice in Pittsburgh .)
(Antropov also assisted on Alexander Mogilny 's empty-net goal in the final minute .)
(Pittsburgh rallied from a 2-0 deficit to tie it on second-period goals by Shean Donovan and Steve McKenna .)
(Lemieux , the NHL 's leading scorer , missed only his second game of the Penguins ' 42 games this season and his first because of an injury , a sore groin that also might keep him out of Saturday 's game against the Rangers .)
(MORE)
(San Francisco 's Oracle racing team denied Friday it will have actor Tom Cruise on board during one of its America 's Cup challenger final races on Auckland 's Hauraki Gulf .)
(Cruise is in New Zealand filming `` The Last Samurai , '' an action epic set in feudal Japan in the 19th century in which he plays a Civil War hero schooling Japanese soldiers in modern warfare .)
(Reports have been circulating in Auckland that Cruise will take time away from the film set in the central North Island province of Taranaki to sail as 17th man aboard the Oracle race yacht when it begins the finals series Saturday against Swiss entry Alinghi .)
(The 17th man is a traditional position on an America 's Cup yacht reserved for a guest of the owner .)
(Cruise is a known acquaintance of Oracle 's billionaire founder Larry Ellison .)
(Oracle spokesman Mike Cahill said Friday he was aware of reports Cruise had been invited to sail as 17th man during the best-of-nine finals series but knew of no invitation extended to the actor .)
(`` I 've heard the story but as far as I know there 's not truth in it , '' he said .)
(-LRB- sm-djp -RRB-)
(Peru 's air force was searching for a plane carrying 46 passengers that disappeared while flying over Peru 's Amazon jungle Thursday .)
(Tans Airline flight 1396 was three minutes from landing at an airport of Chachapoyas , a city located in jungle-covered mountains 400 miles -LRB- 645 kilometers -RRB- north of Lima , when radio contact was lost with the plane , Tans spokesman Jorge Belevan said .)
(`` That is when we lost contact with the plane , and we do n't have more information , '' he said .)
(Belevan said the air force was searching for the plane , a Fokker 28 .)
(He said it had sufficient fuel and may have landed at an alternative airport .)
(He said flying conditions were good but that the weather in the jungle could change abruptly .)
(The plane was flying from the coastal city of Chiclayo , 410 miles -LRB- 660 kilometers -RRB- northwest of Lima , he said .)
(Congressman Walter Alejos said he had been told by Defense Minister Aurelio Loret de Mola that military helicopters had joined the search .)
(Chachapoyas is close to ancient Indian ruins and is visited by foreign tourists .)
(But no information was available on the identity or nationality of the plane 's passengers .)
(Second -seeded Meghann Shaughnessy of the United States will meet fifth-seeded Francesca Schiavone in Saturday 's final of the Canberra Classic women 's tennis tournament .)
(Shaughnessy on Friday beat unseeded Emilie Loit of France 6-1 , 7-5 in their semifinal to set up a shot at her third WTA title .)
(The American fought back from a 5-1 deficit in the second set .)
(Schiavone beat qualifier Marion Bartoli of France 6-4 , 3-6 , 6-3 .)
(-LRB- djp -RRB-)
(Drugmaker Schering - Plough Corp. lowered its earnings forecast for 2002 , citing a rapid decline in prescriptions for Claritin , its popular allergy drug .)
(The pharmaceutical maker said it expected fourth-quarter earnings per share to come in at 27 cents to 29 cents , giving it a profit for the year of $ 1.40 to $ 1.42 per share .)
(Analysts surveyed by Thomson First Call had forecast full-year 2002 earnings of $ 1.57 and fourth-quarter earnings of 44 cents .)
(The company blamed the disappointing results on a sharp sales drop for Claritin , which became available without a prescription last month .)
(Schering - Plough said prescription demand for the drug had fallen even more than it had anticipated .)
(Schering - Plough initially fought the health insurance industry 's push to switch the drug to over-the-counter .)
(Claritin accounts for one-third of the Kenilworth , N.J. -based company 's roughly $ 9 billion in annual revenues .)
(Faced with expiration of Claritin 's main patent and the prospect of both generic and nonprescription competition , Schering - Plough backed down .)
(The company also affirmed its 2003 earnings forecast of $ 1 to $ 1.15 per share .)
(Schering - Plough shares rose 19 cents to close at $ 23.06 Thursday on the New York Stock Exchange .)
(The earnings news was released after the market closed , and company shares plunged $ 1.31 , or 5.6 percent , in extended trading .)
(Gov. George Ryan 's decision to deliver speeches at two law schools that have been at the center of the fight against capital punishment has raised expectations that he will announce more clemencies before his term ends Monday .)
(Ryan speaks at DePaul University on Friday and Northwestern University on Saturday .)
(The addresses are widely expected to cap Ryan 's three-year campaign to highlight flaws in the state 's death penalty system , which began when he declared a moratorium on executions in January 2000 .)
(`` I do n't think he would come and give a speech that was going to greatly disappoint us , '' said Rob Warden , executive director of the Northwestern University Center on Wrongful Convictions .)
(Ryan , a Republican , has said he will announce by the end of his term whether he will grant clemency to any or all of the state 's 160 death row inmates .)
(He leaves office at noon Monday .)
(Ryan 's suggestion last year that he might grant blanket clemency to every death row inmate prompted nearly all of them to seek mercy .)
(That led to a controversial series of hearings in the fall that replayed some of the state 's most gruesome murders .)
(After the hearings , Ryan said he was no longer inclined to grant blanket clemency .)
(He has been under relentless pressure ever since from people on both sides of the issue -- families of inmates and crime victims , law professors , prosecutors and politicians .)
(In recent weeks , Ryan has returned to anti-death penalty activism , twice announcing pardons of wrongfully convicted people who were no longer in jail .)
(DePaul University is home to an anti-death penalty center , while Northwestern has spearheaded the anti-death penalty movement in Illinois .)
(Scholars at its law school have fought on behalf of inmates , and Northwestern journalism students conducted investigations that freed death row convicts .)
(Even as a corruption scandal plagued his administration , Ryan , who did not seek re-election , could always count on a warm welcome at Northwestern .)
(Increasing the optimism of death penalty opponents is the invitation extended by Ryan to relatives of death row inmates to one or both of the speeches .)
(`` The governor 's office invited me to the speech -LRB- Friday -RRB- and they 're giving me a special seat , '' said Costella Cannon , the mother of Frank Bounds , who died of a heart attack in 1998 while on death row .)
(Guatemalan twins born joined at the skull will return home to Guatemala next week , five months after the girls were successfully separated in a marathon surgery , a hospital spokeswoman announced Thursday .)
(Maria Teresa Quiej Alvarez and her sister Maria de Jesus are slated to leave Monday morning on a five-hour flight to Guatemala City , said Elaine Schmidt , spokeswoman for the Mattel Children 's Hospital at the University of California at Los Angeles .)
(The 17-month -old girls were separated Aug. 6 in a 23-hour surgery .)
(At first , their return home was delayed to give them time to recover from follow-up surgeries .)
(It was delayed again at the request of Guatemalan health authorities who needed more time to prepare for their arrival , Schmidt said .)
(Once home , the two face additional surgeries to gradually stretch their scalps to eliminate the skin grafts and allow them to grow full heads of hair .)
(___ On the Net : http : //www.healthcare.ucla.edu/conjoined_twins/index.as p)
(A Peruvian airliner carrying 46 people , including eight children , disappeared amid cloud-covered mountains in the Amazon jungle .)
(Heavy rain hampered the search effort .)
(Peru 's air force halted helicopter missions to find the plane late in the afternoon , and weather forecasts called for more rain Friday .)
(`` The air search has been suspended due to rain .)
(We are focusing on organizing ground teams to send out , '' said Avelino Flores , a Civil Defense official in Luyo , the village closest to the area where the plane was believed to have gone down .)
(The area was at least six hours away by foot , over difficult terrain .)
(TANS Airline flight 222 was about three minutes from landing at an airport in Chachapoyas , a city in the jungle-covered mountains 400 miles -LRB- 645 kilometers -RRB- north of Lima , when radio contact was lost , said Jorge Belevan , chief spokesman for the state-owned airline .)
(Belevan said there were four crew and 42 passengers aboard the plane , including eight children , and a Belgian husband and wife identified as Christophe Dubois and Sofia Porfirio .)
(`` We still do n't know if the plane made an emergency landing because it is prepared for that type of emergency , '' said Lizandro Toro , another TANS spokesman .)
(But John Elio , president of an association of Peruvian pilots , said an emergency landing in the Chachapoyas area was virtually impossible because of the mountainous terrain .)
(In Belgium , Foreign Affairs spokesman Didier Seeuws said the passengers included a Belgian who had lived in Peru for years and was married a Peruvian .)
(He had no other information .)
(`` It is still unclear , '' Seeuws said .)
(`` Even our embassy in Lima does n't know at the moment . '')
(John Elio , president of an association of Peruvian pilots , said an emergency landing in the Chachapoyas area was virtually impossible because of the mountainous terrain .)
(The plane , a Fokker 28 , was rented from Peru 's air force and was built in 1965 .)
(The Fokker 28 is a twin-engine turbo jet that can carry as many as 62 passengers .)
(Belevan initially said that flying conditions were good Thursday morning but noted that the weather in the jungle can change quickly .)
(Meteorologist Abraham Levy said it was not raining but low-hanging clouds draped the mountains near Chachapoyas at the time the plane was to land .)
(TANS was set up 40 years ago to fly to remote jungle towns that private airlines did not service because the routes were not profitable .)
(Chachapoyas is close to ancient Indian ruins and is visited by foreign tourists .)
(Five Massachusetts students asked a court Thursday to declare unconstitutional a federal law that requires 18-year -old men , but not women , to register for military service .)
(Their suit claims the law amounts to gender -based discrimination and violates their civil rights .)
(The military draft ended in 1973 .)
(But in 1980 , a requirement for 18-year -old men to register with the Selective Service System was revived .)
(Men who do not register cannot receive federal student aid or hold certain federal jobs and are subject to criminal prosecution .)
(More than 30 states link registration to certain benefits such as tuition assistance .)
(Plaintiff Nicole Foley , 17 , said she suspects the law has not been changed to include women because of long-standing attitudes about women in the military .)
(`` It 's so ingrained in our society that this is the way it is -- that boys , when there 's a war , go off to war , and the girls wait home and get the letters , '' she said .)
(Foley 's brother , Samuel Schwartz , 18 , and three friends are the other plaintiffs .)
(Schwartz said he reluctantly registered about six months ago .)
(The Supreme Court upheld the law in 1981 , citing combat restrictions then in effect for women .)
(But the siblings ' father , civil rights lawyer Harvey Schwartz , said times have changed and so should the law .)
(`` Women can now do just about anything men can do in the military , with some limited exceptions , '' he said .)
(`` It 's time for the courts and the Congress to take another look at this . '')
(Alyce Burton , a spokeswoman for the Selective Service System , would not comment on the suit .)
(But she said the men-only registration requirement is part of the current law .)
(`` For women to register , Congress would have to change the law , '' she said .)
(The Military Selective Service Act requires all men to register within 30 days of their 18th birthday .)
(From 1948 to 1973 , the military draft was used to bolster the armed forces during periods of both war and peace .)
(Even though there has not been a draft since 1973 , the Selective Service system was kept in place in case an emergency made it necessary for Congress to again authorize inductions .)
(Registration for Selective Service was suspended in 1975 , at the end of the Vietnam War , but former President Jimmy Carter reinstated the requirement in 1980 in response to the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan .)
(The Sacramento Kings went on a 38-10 run bridging the first and second quarters , and eventually led by as many as 42 points , in defeating New Jersey 118-82 Thursday It was the first home loss for the Nets since Nov. 16 , when the West 's other powerhouse -- the Dallas Mavericks -- beat them by eight points .)
(That game at least was competitive , a quality this game lacked for a majority of its 48 minutes .)
(Peja Stojakovic scored 24 points , Mike Bibby added 23 , and Chris Webber had 19 points and 11 rebounds for the Kings , who won their fourth successive game Lucious Harris and Jason Collins scored 11 points each for the Nets , whose home winning streak was snapped at 13 games .)
(More)
(James Smoak 's dog , Patton , was a 16th birthday gift for his stepson .)
(Now , the mixed breed pit bull and boxer is buried in his yard , a reminder of a vacation that turned tragic when Tennessee authorities mistakenly pulled over the family , then fatally shot the dog after he bounded out of the car wagging its tail .)
(`` I want them punished , '' he said Thursday in a telephone interview from his home in Saluda , N.C. `` I do n't ever want to see this happen to anybody else . '')
(Smoak , a seafood salesman , says he has spoken with several attorneys and plans legal action .)
(It happened on New Year 's Day when Tennessee state troopers and Cookeville police stopped the Smoaks on Interstate 40 as they returned from Nashville .)
(Authorities said they thought the Smoaks ' station wagon might be connected to a robbery .)
(A patrol car videotape shows Cookeville police officer Eric Hall shot the dog as it jumped from the car and ran toward him .)
(Hall contends he had no choice when the animal charged him .)
(He has been reassigned to administrative duties pending an independent review .)
(A police investigation found that Hall did not use excessive force .)
(Both agencies have apologized , but Smoak says the regrets ring hollow because they came only after the incident received media attention .)
(`` At the scene they told us they made a mistake and that we were free to go , '' he said .)
(`` No one was moved to say they were sorry . '')
(A British king 's statue might be pulled down and placed among the monkeys in a zoo to make room for the likeness of a Chinese hero , and Her Majesty 's government seems less than amused .)
(`` It does seem a pity , '' the British Consulate said Friday .)
(Some Hong Kong district councilors want to remove King George VI from a prime perch in a downtown botanical and zoological park and replace him with Dr. Sun Yat -sen , the revolutionary recognized as the father of modern China .)
(George , whose daughter Queen Elizabeth II is now on the throne , would end up in the area of the park 's monkey enclosure .)
(`` Sun Yat -sen is more important than King George VI -- this is Chinese soil , '' said Wu Chor -nam , chairman of the Central and Western District Council .)
(British diplomats said it was Hong Kong 's call on whether to move the statue -- more than five years after this former colony was returned to Chinese sovereignty .)
(`` That said , it seems a shame -- given that so much of Hong Kong 's past over the years has given way to new development , it does seem a pity to move it needlessly , '' consular spokeswoman Rebecca Merrett said by telephone .)
(George , who reigned between 1936-52 , became beloved among Britons for staying in London while it was bombed by the Germans during the Blitz in World War II .)
(The proposal to replace George with Sun stirred a heated debate Thursday evening in a district council meeting and captured a fair amount of media attention Friday .)
(`` Monarch may move next to monkeys , '' read a headline the English -language South China Morning Post .)
(A cartoon showed two monkeys grumbling that placing the king in their midst seemed disrespectful , given `` the way them royals have been behaving lately . '')
(Sun founded the first Chinese republic early in the last century and no one is arguing against honoring him , but some councilors said Hong Kong 's history as a British colony should not be erased and George should stay in place .)
(`` We should not glorify our colonial legacy , but the statue is part of Hong Kong history , '' District Councilor Kam Nai -wai said Thursday .)
(`` It brings back many memories . '')
(A plaque on the statue refers to `` His Most Gracious Majesty King George VI , '' saying it was erected to commemorate the centennial in 1941 of Hong Kong 's founding as a British colony .)
(Hong Kong has for some time been planning a memorial garden to honor Sun , but the project has been hit by delays and there has been no decision on an appropriately high-profile place to put up a Sun statue .)
(After Britain handed Hong Kong back to China on July 1 , 1997 , some vestiges of the colonial past soon vanished .)
(In one often-cited example , a waterfront skyscraper formerly called the Prince of Wales building was turned into an army barracks and renamed the Chinese People 's Liberation Army Forces Hong Kong Building .)
(A judge 's jaw dropped and a witness covered his eyes Thursday as they watched the videotape that four men are accused of making by inducing the homeless to brawl in exchange for beer , doughnuts and money .)
(The defendants pleaded innocent Thursday to charges of battery , illegal fight promotion , conspiracy and soliciting an assault with deadly force .)
(The witness , Peter Laforte , said the filmmakers paid a homeless woman $ 20 to attack him in a public restroom in San Diego in 2001 .)
(`` She said they would pay her money to fight someone ; she was hungry ; she needed money to eat , '' Laforte testified in the first day of a preliminary hearing .)
(The explosive brawl that ensued is the first scene on the videotape , `` Bumfights : A Cause for Concern , '' which was sold over the Internet for $ 20 a copy .)
(Judge Lannie Brainard watched openmouthed as scenes from the tape were played .)
(Laforte covered his eyes , saying he was ashamed he hit the woman several times in the face .)
(The video , promoted by radio shock jock Howard Stern and denounced on the floor of the House of Representatives , has sold about 300,000 copies , police said .)
(Two homeless men shown fighting each other in the videotape , Donald Brennan and Rufus Hannah , are suing the filmmakers for assault and battery , intentional infliction of emotional distress and civil rights violations .)
(The defendants are Ryan McPherson , 19 ; Zachary Bubeck , 25 ; Daniel J. Tanner , 21 ; and Michael Slyman , 21 .)
(Security guards , highway patrol officers and sheriff 's deputies converged on a 400-year -old oak tree Thursday to pressure an environmentalist living in its branches to leave .)
(Authorities served John Quigley -- who is trying to save the tree from a developer 's road-widening plan -- with a trespassing lawsuit and removed his tent and American flag .)
(A roadblock was set up near the tree and a fence and `` No Trespassing '' signs were erected to keep away Quigley 's fellow protesters .)
(Several people sleeping under the tree were ordered to leave .)
(`` This is ridiculous , '' Quigley said .)
(`` Talk about overkill ...)
(They could have called and we could have talked about it . '')
(The tree , dubbed `` Old Glory '' is located in a ravine next to a neighborhood of recently built homes .)
(The oak stands in the way of a road widening project that would serve the proposed 21,600-home Newhall Ranch development north of Los Angeles .)
(Quigley , 42 , had been scheduled to be replaced in the oak by another activist Thursday but now intends to remain in the tree to protect it .)
(Bill Rattazzi , president of the Los Angeles division of John Laing Homes , said no attempt was made to remove or arrest Quigley .)
(`` These actions were taken to stabilize the situation and allow the issue to be decided in the courts in an orderly manner , '' he said .)
(Activists have refused to end their protest despite a proposal by the developer to relocate the tree to a nearby park .)
(Environmentalists fear the oak would not survive the move .)
(Jim Furyk felt right at home Thursday in the Mercedes Championships , where he polished off a 9-under 64 just 300 yards -LRB- meters -RRB- from his house and wound up in a share of the lead with South Africa 's Ernie Els .)
(Only three players in the 36-man field of PGA Tour winners were over par .)
(More than half of the field were in the 60s , and the average score -- 69.31 -- was the lowest for any round in the five years that the Mercedes has been played at Kapalua .)
(Furyk played 27 holes on the Plantation Course just two months ago , and he 's the only person on the PGA Tour to have played in the season-opening Mercedes all five years since it moved to Kapalua .)
(`` I know the course plenty well , whether I play here in the offseason or not , '' Furyk said of his home-field advantage .)
(He attributed his bogey-free 64 to an eagle on the par-5 ninth that kept him in the lead most of the day , and a great round of putting , including a 40-footer he made on the 17th hole .)
(Els also feels at home at Kapalua , one of his favorite stops .)
(He missed last year after failing to win on the tour for the first since 1994 , but victories at Doral and the British Open brought him back .)
(And the Big Easy looks intent on returning a lot more often .)
(Els made two eagles in surprisingly gentle conditions , and played the final seven holes in 6-under par to match Furyk at 64 .)
(He had a chance to take the outright lead after hitting a 2-iron to within 5.5 meters -LRB- 18 feet -RRB- , but his eagle putt came up short .)
(Chris Riley and Gene Sauers each had a 65 , two players more representative of this year 's 36-man field at the winners-only Mercedes .)
(Tiger Woods is not playing this year because of knee surgery last month , while second-ranked Phil Mickelson is taking time off .)
(David Toms , Davis Love III and David Duval did n't win last year , so they did n't qualify .)
(In their place are guys like Riley , who is among the 18 players who won for the first time on tour last year , and Sauers , who went 13 years between victories .)
(Jerry Kelly , who won his first PGA Tour event at the Sony Open in Honolulu , also had a 65 .)
(Rookie -of-the-year Jonathan Byrd and Luke Donald of England were in the group at 68 .)
(It was a spectacular start to the season in more ways than one -- plenty of sunshine and only a trace of wind .)
(`` I do n't think I 've ever seen it this calm , '' Els said .)
(`` When you get a day like today , you 've got to take advantage . '')
(PGA champion Rich Beem -LRB- 74 -RRB- , Spain 's Jose Maria Olazabal -LRB- 74 -RRB- and Len Mattiace -LRB- 75 -RRB- were the only players who failed to shoot par or better on what figures to be the easiest day of the tournament .)
(`` I told my caddie , ` We 'd better get going early because I do n't know if we 'll have another day like this , ' '' Els said .)
(Els did n't carry out his plan to perfection .)
(A tap-in birdie on the 436-meter -LRB- 484-yard -RRB- seventh hole pushed him to 4 under for the round , only that did n't last long .)
(He tried to fade a 6-iron to the flag on the par-3 eighth , but he held onto the club too long , and the ball went down the hill left into the hazard .)
(It was similar to the mistake he made at Muirfield on the 16th , which also led to a double bogey and nearly cost him the British Open .)
(Just like then , Els recovered .)
(He birdied the next hole , then really turned it loose on the back nine , belting his driver with confidence and setting up short birdie putts .)
(He hit 7-iron for his second shot on the 500-meter -LRB- 555-yard -RRB- 15th hole to within 4.5 meters -LRB- 15 feet -RRB- for his second eagle of the round .)
(Els is due a victory at Kapalua .)
(He had a chance three years ago against Woods , when both eagled the 18th , birdied the 18th in a playoff and Woods finally won with a 13 meter -LRB- 40-foot -RRB- birdie on the second playoff hole .)
(Els also had control in 2001 , but instead watched Furyk -- his playing partner in the final round -- hole critical putts to win .)
(Woods is n't around this year , out for at least the first five weeks of the season while recovering from knee surgery .)
(Els will play Friday with Furyk , who can be just as tough on a course Furyk has come to love .)
(Furyk won at Kapalua during the silly-season in 1995 , and he has never finished lower than ninth in five years at the Mercedes .)
(He wasted no time moving to the top this year , hitting a 4-wood off the tee at No. 9 and another 4-wood to within 4.5 meters -LRB- 15 feet -RRB- for an eagle .)
(Furyk made five other putts of at least 4.5 meters -LRB- 15 feet -RRB- , including the 13-meter -LRB- 40-foot -RRB- shot on No .)
(17 .)
(Furyk knows Kapalua well enough to realize there wo n't be too many days easier than this one for low scoring .)
(`` About as good as it gets , '' he said .)
(`` The wind laid down for us today , made it possible to go out there and shoot low scores . '')
(Japan demanded Friday North Korea reverse its decision to quit the global nuclear arms control treaty and respond positively to end fears about its suspected nuclear weapons program .)
(North Korea announced it had withdrawn from the Nuclear Non - Proliferation Treaty .)
(It blamed what it said was U.S. aggression toward it , but said it would not develop nuclear weapons `` at this stage . '')
(`` Our nation will strongly demand from North Korea a quick retraction of its statement and a positive response to solving the nuclear weapons problem , '' Japanese Chief Cabinet Secretary Yasuo Fukuda said in Tokyo .)
(Fukuda said Japan will work closely with the United States , South Korea and other nations as well as the U.N. 's International Atomic Energy Agency to address the crisis .)
(South Korea , which has repeatedly called for diplomacy to ease tension , had no immediate response to Pyongyang 's decision .)
(Before the North 's announcement on Friday , South Korea 's president-elect Roh Moo -hyun warned of the dangers of punishing Pyongyang over its nuclear weapons program .)
(`` Once we start using the stick , it 's difficult to change course , '' Roh , who will take office on Feb. 25 , said Thursday .)
(`` The carrot may cost a lot and may not easily attract popular support , but it will be cheaper than creating dangerous situations . '')
(New Zealand does not plan to review its nuclear-free policy , the foreign minister said Friday , although it is widely seen as an obstacle to securing a free-trade pact with the United States .)
(Phil Goff ruled out any change in the policy , which was instituted in 1984 and bans nuclear weapons and nuclear-powered ships from New Zealand territory , or even a policy review , which U.S. officials have suggested .)
(The United States wants the policy overturned so its warships and submarines can visit New Zealand ports .)
(`` We 've got no plans to review it , or particular cause to review it , '' Goff told The Associated Press .)
(The policy would only be reviewed `` if we feel the need to change it ... and nobody has given a pressing reason why we should bring nuclear powered ships into the harbor , '' he said .)
(U.S. Trade Representative Bob Zoellick is due to put a proposal to Congress shortly seeking approval to open negotiations with New Zealand on a free trade deal , which Wellington is eager for .)
(Goff said the nuclear-free policy was not a major obstacle to a free trade agreement , although Washington would include it in negotiations .)
(It was not a `` key issue on which a free trade agreement moves forward or does n't move forward , '' Goff said .)
(More important was the issue of access for New Zealand agricultural products to the U.S. market , he said .)
(Recently a leading opposition lawmaker broke ranks with the opposition National Party by calling for the ban on nuclear-powered ships to be scrapped .)
(The party 's policy has previously mirrored the government 's stance .)
(Goff said even a review of the policy would raise `` unreasonable expectations of change , '' as happened when the 1991 National Party government carried out a review and left the policy unchanged .)
(`` That led to the Americans feeling duped ... publicly let down and embarrassed , '' he added .)
(`` It 's better to be frank and better to be honest . '')
(The most recent public opinion poll reported that 65 percent of New Zealanders oppose nuclear ship visits .)
(Late last year , Prime Minister Helen Clark said New Zealand had constructed its foreign policy around `` being a small independent minded country that takes these issues seriously ... and I am not about to throw it all away -LRB- for a trade deal -RRB- . '')
(After the anti-nuclear law was adopted in 1984 , the United States and Australia ejected New Zealand from a three-way military alliance , known as ANZUS .)
(A police investigator testified Thursday that a man was not coerced into confessing to taking part in the killing of a newborn , an account challenged by lawyers who say the man is mentally retarded and the infant never existed .)
(Defense witnesses said Medell Banks has an IQ of 57 and probably would not have understood his rights when they were read to him before he made incriminating statements in 1999 .)
(Circuit Judge Thomas Butler is to decide if the statements should be allowed as evidence in Banks ' capital murder trial , set to begin Monday .)
(The hearing was to resume Friday .)
(Banks , his estranged wife , Victoria Banks , and her sister , Dianne Tucker , pleaded guilty to manslaughter and received 15-year sentences after being charged with capital murder in the death of the infant , supposedly born to Victoria Banks .)
(Defense lawyers , however , have argued that all three are mentally retarded and were intimidated into pleas .)
(They introduced testimony from a gynecologist that Banks ' wife was sterile from a surgical procedure and could not have been pregnant .)
(After a number of news stories about the case , including a series by The Associated Press , Tucker was released from prison with a reduced sentence and an appeals court ruled that Banks could withdraw his plea .)
(Banks ' wife , in prison on an unrelated conviction , did not seek to change her plea .)
(Alabama Bureau of Investigation agent Stan Stabler testified Thursday he advised Banks in 1999 of his rights to remain silent and have a lawyer .)
(He said Banks was not coerced into saying he took part in the newborn 's death and buried the infant 's body .)
(No evidence of the baby or a burial site was ever found .)
(Joyce Dixon -- who taught Banks in high school , where he was a special education student -- testified that he was a slow learner .)
(`` You would have to repeat things to him quite frequently , '' she said .)
(Mental health expert James Siders , a professor at the University of Southern Mississippi in Hattiesburg , said Banks has an IQ of 57 , which he said signals mild retardation .)
(In a bid to revitalize the economy by the time she steps down in 2004 , President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo signed into law Friday two key bills aimed at stemming official corruption and freeing banks of bad loans .)
(Arroyo said last month she wo n't run for presidency and would use her remaining months in office to push the economy forward .)
(On Friday she said she would focus on creating more jobs and curbing graft and bureaucratic red tape .)
(To symbolize the importance of the two measures to the economy , she signed the bills in a ceremony at the Philippine Stock Exchange headquarters .)
(One of the laws , the Special Purpose Vehicle Act , will enable banks to convert idle assets into cash to release badly needed funds .)
(`` The SPAV seeks to save the banking sector from the financial fallout of lending decisions that went sour after the Asian crisis -LRB- of 1997-98 -RRB- , '' Arroyo said , adding the banks have been groaning under more than 300 billion pesos -LRB- US$ 5.6 billion -RRB- in bad loans and 200 billion pesos -LRB- US$ 3.7 billion -RRB- in repossessed assets .)
(The Government Procurement Reform Act aims at eliminating corruption in the state procurement contracts , the hiring of consultants and the award of infrastructure projects , which drain an estimated 22 billion pesos -LRB- US$ 415 million -RRB- from public coffers every year .)
(`` As a bonus , the money that can be saved by making more procurement more effective , efficient and less prone to corrupt practices will reduce the budget deficit , '' Arroyo said .)
(She promised the government will wage `` an unrelenting war '' against business fraud and official extortion .)
(`` If anyone in my government tries it , tell me , '' she said .)
(Arroyo , 55 , took office in January 2001 after mass protests forced her predecessor , Joseph Estrada , to flee the presidential palace amid corruption charges .)
(Her term has been beset by crises over Muslim separatists , communist rebels , crime and turbulent politics .)
(The economy was the most daunting challenge facing Arroyo when she was sworn in : 40 percent of the country 's population of 76 million were living below the poverty line , and unemployment was above 11 percent .)
(The national debt was a record US$ 3.5 billion in the first 10 months of last year .)
(The government blames the debt in part on inefficient and corrupt tax collectors .)
(Arroyo has said that not running for election in 2004 will give her a free hand to revamp the economy instead of campaigning .)
(Arroyo also announced several infrastructure projects and asked Congress to pass into law reform measures to improve productivity , tax collection and encourage investments .)
(A Chinese court is to hear appeals from two Tibetans whose convictions in a series of bombings prompted an international outcry , a court official said Friday .)
(The Sichuan Provincial High People 's Court will review a death sentence imposed last month on one of the men , Lobsang Dhondup , said a court official who refused to give his name .)
(The hearing was to take place later Friday in Ganzi , the city in Sichuan province where two bombings in 2001 killed one person and injured another .)
(The area is near the Tibetan border and has a large ethnic Tibetan population .)
(A third bombing went off last April in a park in the provincial capital of Chengdu .)
(The court will also hear the appeal of the second person convicted , Tenzin Deleg Rinpoche , a Tibetan Buddhist leader who received a suspended death sentence , according to the court official .)
(China says the two confessed .)
(But activists say they were mistreated in custody and did not receive a fair trial .)
(Their cases were raised last month during a visit to Beijing by Washington 's top human rights official , Assistant Secretary of State Lorne Craner .)
(China has angrily rejected such appeals as interference in its affairs , but it occasionally releases political prisoners following foreign pressure .)
(Activists accuse Beijing of misusing the global antiterror campaign as an excuse to crush peaceful pro-independence sentiment in Tibet and the northwestern Muslim region of Xinjiang .)
(Communist troops marched into the region in 1950 , and Beijing says it has been part of China for centuries .)
(The exiled Tibetan leader , the Dalai Lama , has urged Tibetans to avoid violence .)
(But militants opposed to Chinese rule have carried out at several bomb attacks in the Himalayan region since the mid-1990s .)
(The court official in Sichuan refused to give additional details of the hearing .)
(The human rights group Amnesty International says Tenzin Deleg Rinpoche , 52 , has been hung from the ceiling by shackles on his hands and feet .)
(It said he is on a hunger strike in protest .)
(Tenzin Deleg Rinpoche is an influential leader of Tibetans in Sichuan .)
(He studied in the 1980s with the Dalai Lama , the exiled Tibetan spiritual leader , according to the London -based Tibet Information Network .)
(Death sentences in China are usually carried out , while suspended death sentences often are commuted to long prison terms .)
(Student editors at a high school newspaper filed a lawsuit Thursday accusing their school district of violating their First Amendment rights by confiscating an edition that contained an article about student drinking .)
(U.S. District Court Judge Donald Nugent turned down a request from the four Wooster High School students for a temporary restraining order that would have prevented the district from blocking distribution .)
(Last month , the district confiscated 4,500 copies of the biweekly paper on the advice of lawyers who said the publication contained inaccuracies and was potentially libelous .)
(Student editors said the copies of The Wooster Blade were seized because the newspaper contained a story saying athletes and the daughter of a school board member consumed alcohol at a party in November .)
(The school district and the students reached a deal Thursday that allows the paper to be distributed on condition portions the district finds objectionable be deleted , said Kenneth Myers , a lawyer for the students .)
(`` We 're still going to fight for the right to publish it as is , '' Myers said .)
(The editors ' lawsuit requests damages and asks the court to prevent the district from carrying out discipline against them .)
(The school 's principal , James Jackson , said a teacher told him about a possible confidentiality problem related to a story about the party .)
(At least two students said they were misquoted in statements that `` attributed to them acts of misconduct and potentially acts of criminal behavior , '' school Superintendent David Estrop said .)
(___ On the Net : Wooster School District : http : //www.wooster.k12.oh.us Student Press Law Center : http : //www.splc.org)
(Opponents of President Hugo Chavez accused the embattled leader of promoting political violence after opposition-led marches in several cities were attacked by radical government supporters .)
(`` It 's the leader of the country who is provoking this violence , '' said Carlos Ortega , president of the Confederation of Venezuelan Workers , the nation 's largest and most powerful trade union .)
(`` If we live in democracy , why do n't you allow the public to march peacefully ? '' added Ortega .)
(Government supporters attacked anti- Chavez marchers in Caracas and outside oil facilities around the country , the latest incidents of political violence in this crisis-stricken South American country of 24 million .)
(`` Chavistas , '' as the president 's backers are called , attacked a rally outside a refinery in Cardon , 270 miles -LRB- 434 kilometers -RRB- east of Caracas , wounding a 40-year -old worker and a 28-year -old demonstrator , said Luis Arends , a civil defense worker .)
(In Caracas , gunmen fired several shots and threw tear gas at an opposition rally .)
(No one was hurt , and the rally resumed .)
(There were no arrests .)
(Chavez supporters armed with machetes and sticks also prevented a demonstration at an oil facility in central Carabobo state , Globovision television reported .)
(A minor clash occurred at a plant in Barinas state .)
(Chavez , a leftist former paratroop commander who was elected in 1998 and re-elected two years later , denies he is fomenting escalating violence .)
(Chavez opponents claim the president 's fiery rhetoric incites violent reactions from his most radical backers .)
(In January 2002 , four supporters of Chavez 's ruling party were slain in western Zulia state .)
(Nineteen died last year on April 11 , when rival marches clashed in downtown Caracas .)
(The bloodshed spurred a coup and Chavez 's brief ouster .)
(Loyalists in the military returned him to power on April 14 .)
(Three more citizens were killed , presumably by a lone gunman , at an opposition rallying point on Nov. 6 , and two government supporters died of gunshot wounds at a street march last Friday .)
(Thursday 's aggressions occurred as thousands of Venezuelan bank workers stayed home to support a nationwide strike seeking new presidential elections , further weakening the currency as analysts speculate that Chavez 's government is running out of money .)
(The nationwide strike that began Dec. 2 has shut thousands of businesses and brought Venezuela 's vital oil industry -- once the world 's fifth-largest exporter -- to a virtual halt .)
(Gas has been imported .)
(Amid fears of a banking crisis , Venezuelans bought U.S. dollars and sent the bolivar currency to a record low of 1,593 to the dollar -- 5 percent weaker than Wednesday and down 12 percent for the year .)
(Analysts speculated Chavez 's government may have to devalue the bolivar to balance its budget .)
(Most government income is in dollars and a weaker bolivar would increase its domestic spending power .)
(Spokesmen at three of Venezuela 's largest banks -- Banco de Venezuela , Banco Provincial and Banesco -- said 80 percent of the country 's nearly 60,000 bank employees stayed home Thursday .)
(Jose Torres , president of the opposition-aligned Fetrabanca workers union , urged employees to provide only minimal services -- such as processing payments for medical emergencies -- Thursday and Friday .)
(But Luis Boris , secretary general of the pro-government bank workers union Sutrabanca , accused bank owners of closing doors without consulting workers .)
(A nonbinding referendum on Chavez 's rule is scheduled for Feb. 2 .)
(Chavez insists the constitution only requires him to respect a possible recall referendum in August , the midpoint of his six-year term .)
(Strike organizers -- including leaders of the nation 's largest trade union , its business chamber and the state-run oil company -- claim their protest is as strong as ever .)
(Many factories , industrial parks and supermarkets remained closed .)
(But there were signs many are tiring of the strike .)
(There was more traffic on streets and sidewalks and in shops , restaurants and markets .)
(Efforts by Chavez to jump-start operations at Petroleos de Venezuela S.A. , or PDVSA , have been partially successful .)
(Crude output is estimated at about 400,000 barrels a day , compared with the pre-strike level of 3 million barrels .)
(Exports , normally 2.5 million barrels a day , are at 500,000 barrels a day .)
(Energy Minister Rafael Ramirez claimed PDVSA will produce 1.5 million barrels a day by next week and will reach full capacity next month .)
(Dissident PDVSA workers doubt production can reach those levels so soon .)
(Some 350 former Gurkha soldiers who fought for the British during World War II are filing claims for compensation from London for the time they spent as Japanese prisoners , their advocates said Friday .)
(The Gurkha soldiers from Nepal are taking advantage of a November decision by the High Court in London that said they have the right to seek compensation from the British government and be treated the same as other soldiers who fought for the British army .)
(`` We are leaving for London on Saturday with at least 350 claims from former prisoners of war or their widows to file them at the Defense Ministry , '' said Padam Gurung , chairman of the Gurkha Army Ex - Servicemen 's Organization .)
(Gurung 's organization has battled with the British government to end the different treatment of Gurkha soldiers who are still serving or had served with the British army .)
(Gurkhas began fighting for Britain in 1815 in India .)
(With Indian independence in 1947 they became part of the British army .)
(Nearly 3,600 serve now , and have taken part in British operations in Bosnia , Kosovo , Afghanistan and Sierra Leone .)
(In a fund the British government set up in November 2000 for surviving British POWs from World War II , each former soldier was to receive 10,000 pounds -LRB- US$ 15,500 -RRB- .)
(The British Ministry of Defense had argued that World War II Gurkha regiments formed part of the Indian army and were ineligible for the British army compensation .)
(Britain had claimed the two armies were subject to different codes of military law and regulations and were constitutionally separate , although Britain and British officers commanded the Indian army and the Gurkha troops .)
(Britain also says Gurkha pensions are now roughly equivalent to one-third of the pensions for British soldiers and are more than adequate for retirees in Nepal , one of the world 's poorest countries .)
(Although the cost of living in Nepal is much lower than in Britain , the Gurkhas argue that the pension is still far too low .)
(Gurung said that a hearing on the pension case is coming up in February .)
(`` We are confident that we will win this case , too , and that justice will be served for hundreds of former Gurkha soldiers who risked their lives for Britain but were denied a fair pension , '' said Gopal Siwakoti , the former soldiers ' lawyer .)
